
<h1 class="sectionedit1" id="bibliography">Bibliography</h1>
<div class="level1">

<p>
This bibliography is a <strong>collection of academic work on data physicalization</strong>. <a href="/dataphys-dokuwiki/contribute" class="wikilink1" title="contribute" data-wiki-id="contribute">You can help us extend it</a>.
</p>

<p>
For work that does not refer to data physicalization but describes technologies which may be used for that purpose, see <a href="/dataphys-dokuwiki/technologies" class="wikilink1" title="technologies" data-wiki-id="technologies">technologies</a>. For non-academic work, see the <a href="http://dataphys.org/list" class="urlextern" title="http://dataphys.org/list" rel="ugc nofollow">list of physical visualizations</a>.
</p>

<p>
<strong><em>Please do not link to articles behind paywalls.</em></strong> If you authored an article for which no link is available, please put your PDF online and send us the link. The principle of <a href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Self-archiving" class="urlextern" title="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Self-archiving" rel="ugc nofollow">self-archiving</a> generally allows you to do so.
</p>

</div>
<!-- EDIT{&quot;target&quot;:&quot;section&quot;,&quot;name&quot;:&quot;Bibliography&quot;,&quot;hid&quot;:&quot;bibliography&quot;,&quot;codeblockOffset&quot;:0,&quot;secid&quot;:1,&quot;range&quot;:&quot;1-662&quot;} -->
<h1 class="sectionedit2" id="peer-reviewed_full_papers">Peer-reviewed full papers</h1>
<div class="level1">

<p>
<strong>2023</strong>
</p>
<ul>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Dennis Peeters, Champika Ranasinghe, Auriol Degbelo &amp; Faizan Ahmed.<br/>
<strong>EmoClock: Communicating Real-Time Emotional States Through Data Physicalizations.</strong><br/>
In: Proc. of INTERACT 2023. Lecture Notes in Computer Science, vol 14142. Springer, Cham.<br/>
<a href="https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-031-42280-5_26" class="urlextern" title="https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-031-42280-5_26" rel="ugc nofollow">https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-031-42280-5_26</a></div>
</li>
</ul>
<ul>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> C. M. Epa Ranasinghe,  Degbelo, A. <br/>
<strong><a href="https://www.mdpi.com/2414-4088/7/7/73" class="urlextern" title="https://www.mdpi.com/2414-4088/7/7/73" rel="ugc nofollow">Encoding Variables, Evaluation Criteria, and Evaluation Methods for Data Physicalisations: A Review</a>.</strong> <br/>
Multimodal Technologies and Interaction, 7(7), <a href="/dataphys-dokuwiki/73" class="wikilink2" title="73" rel="nofollow" data-wiki-id="73">73</a>. <br/>
<a href="https://www.mdpi.com/2414-4088/7/7/73" class="urlextern" title="https://www.mdpi.com/2414-4088/7/7/73" rel="ugc nofollow">https://www.mdpi.com/2414-4088/7/7/73</a> </div>
</li>
</ul>
<ul>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Eva Hornecker, Trevor Hogan, Uta Hinrichs, and Rosa van Koningsbruggen.<br/>
<strong><a href="https://doi.org/10.1145/3617366" class="urlextern" title="https://doi.org/10.1145/3617366" rel="ugc nofollow">A Design Vocabulary for Data Physicalization</a>.</strong> <br/>
ACM ToCHI (Transactions Computer-Human Interaction). Just Accepted (August 2023). 58 pages (just accepted version) <br/>
<a href="https://doi.org/10.1145/3617366" class="urlextern" title="https://doi.org/10.1145/3617366" rel="ugc nofollow">https://doi.org/10.1145/3617366</a></div>
</li>
</ul>
<ul>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Lee Jones, Greta Grip, and Sara Nabil. <br/>
<strong><a href="https://doi.org/10.1145/3563657.3596007" class="urlextern" title="https://doi.org/10.1145/3563657.3596007" rel="ugc nofollow">Wear Your Heart on Your Sleeve: Using Digital Knitting Machines to Craft Wearable Biodata Portraits</a>.</strong> <br/>
In Proceedings of the 2023 ACM Designing Interactive Systems Conference (DIS &#039;23). Association for Computing Machinery, New York, NY, USA, 547–563. <br/>
<a href="https://doi.org/10.1145/3563657.3596007" class="urlextern" title="https://doi.org/10.1145/3563657.3596007" rel="ugc nofollow">https://doi.org/10.1145/3563657.3596007</a></div>
</li>
</ul>
<ul>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Michael J. McGuffin, Ryan Servera, and Marie Forest. <br/>
<strong><a href="https://arxiv.org/pdf/2207.11586.pdf" class="urlextern" title="https://arxiv.org/pdf/2207.11586.pdf" rel="ugc nofollow">Path Tracing in 2D, 3D, and Physicalized Networks</a>.</strong> <br/>
In the IEEE Transactions on Visualization and Computer Graphics. <br/>
<a href="https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/document/10024310" class="urlextern" title="https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/document/10024310" rel="ugc nofollow">https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/document/10024310</a></div>
</li>
</ul>
<ul>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Kim Sauvé, Pierre Dragicevic, and Yvonne Jansen. <br/>
<strong><a href="https://hal.science/hal-03906849/document" class="urlextern" title="https://hal.science/hal-03906849/document" rel="ugc nofollow">Edo: A Participatory Data Physicalization on the Climate Impact of Dietary Choices</a>.</strong> <br/>
In Proceedings of the Seventeenth International Conference on Tangible, Embedded, and Embodied Interaction (TEI &#039;23). Association for Computing Machinery, New York, NY, USA, Article 35, 1–13. <br/>
<a href="https://doi.org/10.1145/3569009.3572807" class="urlextern" title="https://doi.org/10.1145/3569009.3572807" rel="ugc nofollow">https://doi.org/10.1145/3569009.3572807</a></div>
</li>
</ul>

<p>
<strong>2022</strong>
</p>
<ul>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Žarko Dumičić, Katja Thoring, Hermann W Klöckner, and Gesche Joost. <br/>
<strong><a href="https://doi.org/10.21606/drs.2022.660" class="urlextern" title="https://doi.org/10.21606/drs.2022.660" rel="ugc nofollow">Design elements in data physicalization: A systematic literature review.</a></strong> <br/>
DRS 2022 Proceedings. Design Research Society</div>
</li>
</ul>
<ul>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Bae, S. Sandra, Clement Zheng, Mary Etta West, Ellen Yi-Luen Do, Samuel Huron, and Danielle Albers Szafir. <br/>
<strong><a href="https://arxiv.org/abs/2202.10520" class="urlextern" title="https://arxiv.org/abs/2202.10520" rel="ugc nofollow">Making Data Tangible: A Cross-disciplinary Design Space for Data Physicalization.</a></strong> <br/>
In: Proceedings of the 2022 CHI Conference on Human Factors in Computing Systems. New Orleans, Louisana, 2022.</div>
</li>
</ul>
<ul>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Rosa van Koningsbruggen, Hannes Waldschütz, and Eva Hornecker. <br/>
<strong><a href="http://rosavankoningsbruggen.nl/files/papers/What%20is%20Data.pdf" class="urlextern" title="http://rosavankoningsbruggen.nl/files/papers/What%20is%20Data.pdf" rel="ugc nofollow">What is Data? - Exploring the Meaning of Data in Data Physicalisation Teaching.</a></strong> <br/>
In Sixteenth International Conference on Tangible, Embedded, and Embodied Interaction (TEI &#039;22). Association for Computing Machinery, New York, NY, USA, Article 13, 1–21. <br/>
<a href="https://doi.org/10.1145/3490149.3501319" class="urlextern" title="https://doi.org/10.1145/3490149.3501319" rel="ugc nofollow">https://doi.org/10.1145/3490149.3501319</a></div>
</li>
</ul>
<ul>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Kim Sauvé, Miriam Sturdee, and Steven Houben.<br/>
<strong><a href="https://stevenhouben.be/pubs/Physecology-ToCHI21.pdf" class="urlextern" title="https://stevenhouben.be/pubs/Physecology-ToCHI21.pdf" rel="ugc nofollow">Physecology: A Conceptual Framework to Describe Data Physicalizations in their Real-World Context.</a></strong> <br/>
ACM Trans. Comput.-Hum. Interact. 29, 3, Article 27 (June 2022), 33 pages. DOI: <a href="https://doi.org/10.1145/3505590" class="urlextern" title="https://doi.org/10.1145/3505590" rel="ugc nofollow">https://doi.org/10.1145/3505590</a></div>
</li>
</ul>
<ul>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Brigitte Stegers, Kim Sauvé, and Steven Houben.   <br/>
<strong><a href="https://pure.tue.nl/ws/portalfiles/portal/203243376/Ecorbis_DIS_22.pdf" class="urlextern" title="https://pure.tue.nl/ws/portalfiles/portal/203243376/Ecorbis_DIS_22.pdf" rel="ugc nofollow">Ecorbis: A Data Sculpture of Environmental Behavior in the Home Context.</a></strong> <br/>
In Designing Interactive Systems Conference (DIS &#039;22). Association for Computing Machinery, New York, NY, USA, 1669–1683. <a href="https://doi.org/10.1145/3532106.3533508" class="urlextern" title="https://doi.org/10.1145/3532106.3533508" rel="ugc nofollow">https://doi.org/10.1145/3532106.3533508</a></div>
</li>
</ul>

<p>
<strong>2021</strong>
</p>
<ul>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Maria Karyda, Danielle Wilde, and Mette Gislev Kjarsgaard.  <br/>
<strong><a href="https://www.computer.org/csdl/magazine/cg/2021/01/09200790/1ndVAIKBPuU#:~:text=Narrative%20Physicalization%3A%20Supporting%20Interactive%20Engagement%20With%20Personal%20Data&amp;text=Physical%20engagement%20with%20data%20necessarily,and%20analyzing%20personal%20data%20physicalizations." class="urlextern" title="https://www.computer.org/csdl/magazine/cg/2021/01/09200790/1ndVAIKBPuU#:~:text=Narrative%20Physicalization%3A%20Supporting%20Interactive%20Engagement%20With%20Personal%20Data&amp;text=Physical%20engagement%20with%20data%20necessarily,and%20analyzing%20personal%20data%20physicalizations." rel="ugc nofollow">  Narrative physicalization: Supporting interactive engagement with personal data.</a></strong>  <br/>
 IEEE Comput. Graph. Appl. 41, 1 (Jan. 2021), 74–86</div>
</li>
</ul>
<ul>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Charles Perin <br/>
<strong><a href="https://hal.inria.fr/hal-03360714/document" class="urlextern" title="https://hal.inria.fr/hal-03360714/document" rel="ugc nofollow">What Students Learn with Personal Data Physicalization</a></strong> <br/>
 IEEE Computer Graphics and Applications, vol. 41, no. 06, pp. 48-58, 2021. DOI: 10.1109/MCG.2021.3115417</div>
</li>
</ul>
<ul>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Bridger Herman, Maxwell Omdal, Stephanie Zeller, Clara A. Richter, Francesca Samsel, Greg Abram, and Daniel F. Keefe. <br/>
<strong><a href="https://doi.org/10.1145/3488542" class="urlextern" title="https://doi.org/10.1145/3488542" rel="ugc nofollow">Multi-Touch Querying on Data Physicalizations in Immersive AR.</a></strong> <br/>
 Proc. ACM Hum.-Comput. Interact. 5, ISS, Article 497 (November 2021), 20 pages. DOI:<a href="https://doi.org/10.1145/3488542" class="urlextern" title="https://doi.org/10.1145/3488542" rel="ugc nofollow">https://doi.org/10.1145/3488542</a></div>
</li>
</ul>
<ul>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Laura J. Perovich, Sara Ann Wylie, Roseann Bongiovanni <br/>
<strong><a href="https://arxiv.org/ftp/arxiv/papers/2009/2009.06155.pdf" class="urlextern" title="https://arxiv.org/ftp/arxiv/papers/2009/2009.06155.pdf" rel="ugc nofollow">Chemicals in the Creek: designing a situated data physicalization of open government data with the community</a></strong> <br/>
IEEE Transactions on Visualization and Computer Graphics (Volume: 27, Issue: 2, Feb. 2021), DOI: 10.1109/TVCG.2020.3030472</div>
</li>
</ul>
<ul>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> H. Djavaherpour1, F. Samavati1, A. Mahdavi-Amiri2, F. Yazdanbakhsh1, S. Huron3, R. Levy1, Y. Jansen4, and L. Oehlberg <br/>
<strong><a href="https://arxiv.org/pdf/2102.11175.pdf" class="urlextern" title="https://arxiv.org/pdf/2102.11175.pdf" rel="ugc nofollow">Data to Physicalization: A Survey of the Physical Rendering Process. </a></strong> <br/>
EUROVIS 2021 Volume 40 (2021), Number 3. STAR – State of The Art Report. Computer Graphics Forum © 2021  John Wiley &amp; Sons Ltd.</div>
</li>
</ul>
<ul>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Daphne Menheere, Evianne van Hartingsveldt, Mads Birkebæk, Steven Vos, and Carine Lallemand. <br/>
<strong><a href="https://dl.acm.org/doi/10.1145/3461778.3462041" class="urlextern" title="https://dl.acm.org/doi/10.1145/3461778.3462041" rel="ugc nofollow">Laina: Dynamic Data Physicalization for Slow Exercising Feedback. </a></strong> <br/>
Proc. of Designing Interactive Systems 2021 (DIS &#039;21). ACM NY, USA, 1015–1030. DOI:<a href="https://doi.org/10.1145/3461778.3462041" class="urlextern" title="https://doi.org/10.1145/3461778.3462041" rel="ugc nofollow">https://doi.org/10.1145/3461778.3462041</a></div>
</li>
</ul>
<ul>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Florian ‘Floyd’ Mueller, Rohit Khot, Tim Dwyer, Sarah Goodwin, Kim Marriott, Jialin Deng, Han Phan, Jionghao Lin, Kun-Ting Chen, and Yan Wang. <br/>
<strong><a href="https://exertiongameslab.org/wp-content/uploads/2021/03/data_as_delight_chi2021.pdf" class="urlextern" title="https://exertiongameslab.org/wp-content/uploads/2021/03/data_as_delight_chi2021.pdf" rel="ugc nofollow">Data as Delight: Eating data</a></strong> <br/>
Proceedings of CHI 2021, ACM NY, USA, Article 621. DOI: <a href="https://doi.org/10.1145/3411764.3445218" class="urlextern" title="https://doi.org/10.1145/3411764.3445218" rel="ugc nofollow">https://doi.org/10.1145/3411764.3445218</a></div>
</li>
</ul>
<ul>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Kim Sauvé, David Verweij, Jason Alexander, and Steven Houben <br/>
 <strong><a href="https://dl.acm.org/doi/abs/10.1145/3411764.3445746" class="urlextern" title="https://dl.acm.org/doi/abs/10.1145/3411764.3445746" rel="ugc nofollow">Reconfiguration Strategies with Composite Data Physicalizations. </a></strong> <br/>
Proceedings of CHI 2021, ACM NY, USA, Article 471. DOI: <a href="https://doi.org/10.1145/3411764.3445746" class="urlextern" title="https://doi.org/10.1145/3411764.3445746" rel="ugc nofollow">https://doi.org/10.1145/3411764.3445746</a></div>
</li>
</ul>
<ul>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Adam Drogemuller, Andrew Cunningham, James Walsh, James Baumeister, Ross T. Smith, and Bruce H. Thomas. <br/>
 <strong><a href="https://doi.org/10.1145/3411764.3445704" class="urlextern" title="https://doi.org/10.1145/3411764.3445704" rel="ugc nofollow">Haptic and Visual Comprehension of a 2D Graph Layout Through Physicalisation</a></strong> <br/>
 Proc. of CHI 2021, ACM, NY,  <a href="https://doi.org/10.1145/3411764.3445704" class="urlextern" title="https://doi.org/10.1145/3411764.3445704" rel="ugc nofollow">https://doi.org/10.1145/3411764.3445704</a></div>
</li>
</ul>
<ul>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Irene López García and Eva Hornecker. <br/>
 <strong><a href="https://dl.acm.org/doi/10.1145/3430524.3440627" class="urlextern" title="https://dl.acm.org/doi/10.1145/3430524.3440627" rel="ugc nofollow">Scaling Data Physicalization – How Does Size Influence Experience?</a></strong> <br/>
 Proc. of 2021 ACM on Tangible, Embedded and Embodied Interaction Conference (TEI’ 21) ACM, NY,</div>
</li>
</ul>

<p>
<strong>2020</strong>
</p>
<ul>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> D. Lockton, L. Forlano, J. Fass and L. Brawley <br/>
 <strong><a href="https://www.researchgate.net/publication/344615432_Thinking_with_Things_Landscapes_Connections_Performances_as_modes_of_Building_Shared_Understanding" class="urlextern" title="https://www.researchgate.net/publication/344615432_Thinking_with_Things_Landscapes_Connections_Performances_as_modes_of_Building_Shared_Understanding" rel="ugc nofollow">Thinking With Things: Landscapes, Connections, and Performances as Modes of Building Shared Understanding</a></strong> <br/>
 In IEEE Computer Graphics and Applications, vol. 40, no. 6, pp. 38-50, 1 Nov.-Dec. 2020, doi: 10.1109/MCG.2020.3027591.</div>
</li>
</ul>
<ul>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Sauvé, Kim, Saskia Bakker, and Steven Houben. <br/>
 <strong><a href="https://doi.org/10.1145/3357236.3395509" class="urlextern" title="https://doi.org/10.1145/3357236.3395509" rel="ugc nofollow">Econundrum: Visualizing the climate impact of dietary choice through a shared data sculpture.</a></strong> <br/>
 In Proceedings of the 2020 ACM Designing Interactive Systems Conference, pp. 1287-1300. 2020. DOI: 10.1145/3357236.3395509</div>
</li>
</ul>
<ul>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Friske, Mikhaila, Jordan Wirfs-Brock, and Laura Devendorf. <br/>
 <strong><a href="https://doi.org/10.1145/3357236.3395442" class="urlextern" title="https://doi.org/10.1145/3357236.3395442" rel="ugc nofollow">Entangling the roles of maker and interpreter in interpersonal data narratives: Explorations in yarn and sound.</a></strong> <br/>
 In Proceedings of the 2020 ACM Designing Interactive Systems Conference, pp. 297-310. 2020. DOI: 10.1145/3357236.3395442</div>
</li>
</ul>
<ul>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Karyda, Maria, Merja Ryöppy, Jacob Buur, and Andrés Lucero. <br/>
 <strong><a href="https://doi.org/10.1145/3313831.3376844" class="urlextern" title="https://doi.org/10.1145/3313831.3376844" rel="ugc nofollow">Imagining Data-Objects for Reflective Self-Tracking.</a></strong> <br/>
 In Proceedings of the 2020 CHI Conference on Human Factors in Computing Systems, pp. 1-12. 2020. DOI: 10.1145/3313831.3376844</div>
</li>
</ul>
<ul>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Kirshenbaum, Nurit, James Hutchison, Ryan Theriot, Dylan Kobayashi, and Jason Leigh. <br/>
 <strong><a href="https://doi.org/10.1145/3334480.3382968" class="urlextern" title="https://doi.org/10.1145/3334480.3382968" rel="ugc nofollow">Data in context: Engaging audiences with 3D physical geo-visualization.</a></strong> <br/>
 In Extended Abstracts of the 2020 CHI Conference on Human Factors in Computing Systems, pp. 1-9. 2020. DOI: 10.1145/3334480.3382968</div>
</li>
</ul>
<ul>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Panagiotidou, Georgia, Sinem Görücü, and Andrew Vande Moere. <br/>
 <strong><a href="https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/abstract/document/9201309" class="urlextern" title="https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/abstract/document/9201309" rel="ugc nofollow">Data Badges: Making an academic profile through a DIY wearable physicalization.</a></strong> <br/>
 IEEE Computer Graphics and Applications 40, no. 6 (2020): 51-60. DOI: 10.1109/MCG.2020.3025504</div>
</li>
</ul>
<ul>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Raidou, Renata G., M. Eduard Gröller, and Hsiang‐Yun Wu. <br/>
 <strong><a href="https://doi.org/10.1111/cgf.14173" class="urlextern" title="https://doi.org/10.1111/cgf.14173" rel="ugc nofollow">Slice and Dice: A Physicalization Workflow for Anatomical Edutainment.</a></strong> <br/>
 In Computer Graphics Forum, vol. 39, no. 7, pp. 623-634. 2020. DOI: 10.1111/cgf.14173</div>
</li>
</ul>
<ul>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Perovich, Laura J., Phoebe Cai, Amber Guo, Kristin Zimmerman, Katherine Paseman, Dayanna Espinoza Silva, and Julia G. Brody.  <br/>
 <strong><a href="https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/abstract/document/9201339" class="urlextern" title="https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/abstract/document/9201339" rel="ugc nofollow">Data Clothing and BigBarChart: designing physical data reports on indoor pollutants for individuals and communities.</a></strong> <br/>
 IEEE Computer Graphics and Applications 41, no. 1 (2020): 87-98. DOI: 10.1109/MCG.2020.3025322.</div>
</li>
</ul>
<ul>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Khot, Rohit Ashok, Larissa Hjorth, and Florian Mueller. <br/>
 <strong><a href="https://doi.org/10.1145/3379539" class="urlextern" title="https://doi.org/10.1145/3379539" rel="ugc nofollow">Shelfie: a framework for designing material representations of physical activity data.</a></strong> <br/>
 ACM Transactions on Computer-Human Interaction (TOCHI) 27, no. 3 (2020): 1-52.</div>
</li>
</ul>
<ul>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Beghelli, Alejandra, Gonzalo Huerta-Cánepa, and Ricardo Segal. <br/>
 <strong><a href="https://www.cambridge.org/core/journals/proceedings-of-the-international-conference-on-engineering-design/article/data-materialisation-a-new-undergraduate-course-for-a-data-driven-society/ACC92B9D4D5D97D5F418B95605BC1ED9" class="urlextern" title="https://www.cambridge.org/core/journals/proceedings-of-the-international-conference-on-engineering-design/article/data-materialisation-a-new-undergraduate-course-for-a-data-driven-society/ACC92B9D4D5D97D5F418B95605BC1ED9" rel="ugc nofollow">Data materialisation: a new undergraduate course for a data driven society.</a></strong> <br/>
 In Proceedings of the Design Society: International Conference on Engineering Design, vol. 1, no. 1, pp. 2061-2070. Cambridge University Press, 2019.</div>
</li>
</ul>
<ul>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Kurtis Danyluk, Teoman Tomo Ulusoy, Wei Wei, and Wesley Willett. <br/>
 <strong><a href="https://prism.ucalgary.ca/bitstream/handle/1880/112684/2020-Danyluk-TouchAndBeyond.pdf" class="urlextern" title="https://prism.ucalgary.ca/bitstream/handle/1880/112684/2020-Danyluk-TouchAndBeyond.pdf" rel="ugc nofollow"> Touch and Beyond:Comparing Physical and Virtual Reality Visualizations.</a></strong> <br/>
IEEE Transactions on Visualization and Computer Graphics, doi: 10.1109/TVCG.2020.3023336.</div>
</li>
</ul>
<ul>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Maria Karyda, Merja Ryöppy, Jacob Buur, and Andrés Lucero. <br/>
 <strong><a href="https://arxiv.org/pdf/2002.10313.pdf" class="urlextern" title="https://arxiv.org/pdf/2002.10313.pdf" rel="ugc nofollow">Imagining Data-Objects for Reflective Self-Tracking.</a></strong> <br/>
 In Proceedings of the 2020 CHI Conference on Human Factors in Computing Systems (CHI &#039;20). Association for Computing Machinery, New York, NY, USA, 1–12.</div>
</li>
</ul>
<ul>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Dietmar Offenhuber. <br/>
 <strong><a href="https://arxiv.org/pdf/2006.04631.pdf" class="urlextern" title="https://arxiv.org/pdf/2006.04631.pdf" rel="ugc nofollow">What We Talk About When We Talk About Data Physicality</a></strong> <br/>
 in IEEE Computer Graphics and Applications, vol. 40, no. 6, pp. 25-37, 1 Nov.-Dec. 2020</div>
</li>
</ul>
<ul>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Kim Sauvé, Dominic Potts, Jason Alexander, and Steven Houben. <br/>
 <strong><a href="https://eprints.lancs.ac.uk/id/eprint/140417/1/A_Change_of_Perspective_camera_ready.pdf" class="urlextern" title="https://eprints.lancs.ac.uk/id/eprint/140417/1/A_Change_of_Perspective_camera_ready.pdf" rel="ugc nofollow">A Change of Perspective: How User Orientation Influences the Perception of Physicalizations.</a></strong> <br/>
 In Proceedings of the 2020 CHI Conference on Human Factors in Computing Systems (CHI &#039;20). Association for Computing Machinery, New York, NY, USA, 1–12.</div>
</li>
</ul>
<ul>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Kim Sauvé, Saskia Bakker, Nicolai Marquardt, and Steven Houben. <br/>
 <strong><a href="https://eprints.lancs.ac.uk/id/eprint/147555/3/LOOP_NordiCHI2020.pdf" class="urlextern" title="https://eprints.lancs.ac.uk/id/eprint/147555/3/LOOP_NordiCHI2020.pdf" rel="ugc nofollow">LOOP: Exploring Physicalization of Activity Tracking Data.</a></strong> <br/>
 In Proceedings of the 11th Nordic Conference on Human-Computer Interaction: Shaping Experiences, Shaping Society (NordiCHI &#039;20). Association for Computing Machinery, New York, NY, USA, Article 52, 1–12.</div>
</li>
</ul>
<ul>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> M. Karyda, D. Wilde and M. G. Kjærsgaard. <br/>
 <strong><a href="https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/document/9200790" class="urlextern" title="https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/document/9200790" rel="ugc nofollow">Narrative Physicalization: Supporting Interactive Engagement With Personal Data</a></strong> <br/>
 in IEEE Computer Graphics and Applications, vol. 41, no. 1, pp. 74-86, 1 Jan.-Feb.</div>
</li>
</ul>
<ul>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Annemiek Veldhuis, Rong-Hao Liang, and Tilde Bekker. <br/>
 <strong><a href="https://dl.acm.org/doi/10.1145/3374920.3374934" class="urlextern" title="https://dl.acm.org/doi/10.1145/3374920.3374934" rel="ugc nofollow">CoDa: Collaborative Data Interpretation Through an Interactive Tangible Scatterplot.</a></strong> In Proceedings of the Fourteenth International Conference on Tangible, Embedded, and Embodied Interaction (TEI &#039;20). ACM NY, 323–336.</div>
</li>
</ul>
<ul>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Jörn Hurtienne, Franzisca Maas, Astrid Carolus, Daniel Reinhardt, Cordula Baur, and Carolin Wienrich. <br/>
 <strong><a href="https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/document/9201404" class="urlextern" title="https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/document/9201404" rel="ugc nofollow">Move&amp;Find: The Value of Kinaesthetic Experience in a Casual Data Representation</a></strong> <br/>
 In IEEE Computer Graphics and Applications, vol. 40, no. 6, pp. 61-75, 1 Nov.-Dec. 2020, doi: 10.1109/MCG.2020.3025385.</div>
</li>
</ul>

<p>
<strong>2019</strong>
</p>
<ul>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Ang, Kathleen D., Faramarz F. Samavati, Samin Sabokrohiyeh, Julio Garcia, and Mohammed S. Elbaz.  <br/>
 <strong> <a href="https://doi.org/10.1016/j.cag.2019.09.004" class="urlextern" title="https://doi.org/10.1016/j.cag.2019.09.004" rel="ugc nofollow">Physicalizing cardiac blood flow data via 3D printing.</a></strong> <br/>
 Computers &amp; Graphics 85 (2019): 42-54. DOI: 10.1016/j.cag.2019.09.004</div>
</li>
</ul>
<ul>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Mathieu Le Goc, Charles Perin, Sean Follmer, Jean-Daniel Fekete and Pierre Dragicevic. <br/>
 <strong><a href="http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&amp;arnumber=8440836&amp;isnumber=8547224" class="urlextern" title="http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&amp;arnumber=8440836&amp;isnumber=8547224" rel="ugc nofollow">Dynamic Composite Data Physicalization Using Wheeled Micro-Robots&quot;.</a></strong> <br/>
 IEEE Transactions on Visualization and Computer Graphics, vol. 25, no. 1, pp. 737-747.</div>
</li>
</ul>
<ul>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Yun Wang, Adrien Segal, Roberta Klatsky, Daniel F. Keefe, Petra Isenberg, Jörn Hurtienne, Eva Hornecker, Tim Dwyer and Stephen Barrass. <br/>
 <strong><a href="https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/document/8809393?source=authoralert" class="urlextern" title="https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/document/8809393?source=authoralert" rel="ugc nofollow">DOI:10.1109/MCG.2019.2923483 An Emotional Response to the Value of Visualization**</a></strong> <br/>
 IEEE Computer Graphics &amp; Applications Magazine, Visualization Viewpoints, Volume: 39, Issue:5, 2019. pp. 8-17.</div>
</li>
</ul>
<ul>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Audrey Desjardins and Timea Tihanyi. <br/>
 <strong><a href="http://audreydesjardins.com/pdf/Desjardins-ListeningCups-DIS2019.pdf" class="urlextern" title="http://audreydesjardins.com/pdf/Desjardins-ListeningCups-DIS2019.pdf" rel="ugc nofollow">ListeningCups: A Case of Data Tactility and Data Stories.</a></strong> <br/>
 In Proceedings of the 2019 on Designing Interactive Systems Conference (DIS &#039;19). Association for Computing Machinery, New York, NY, USA, 147–160.</div>
</li>
</ul>
<ul>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> David Verweij, David Kirk, Kay Rogage, and Abigail Durrant. <br/>
<strong><a href="https://doi.org/10.6084/m9.figshare.7855778.v2" class="urlextern" title="https://doi.org/10.6084/m9.figshare.7855778.v2" rel="ugc nofollow">Domestic widgets: Leveraging household creativity in co-creating data physicalisations.</a></strong> <br/>
RTD Conference</div>
</li>
</ul>

<p>
<strong>2018</strong>
</p>
<ul>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Courtney Starrett, Susan Reiser, and Tom Pacio.  <br/>
 <strong><a href="https://doi.org/10.1145/3202918.3203087" class="urlextern" title="https://doi.org/10.1145/3202918.3203087" rel="ugc nofollow">Data Materialization: A Hybrid Process of Crafting a Teapot.</a>.</strong> In ACM SIGGRAPH 2018 Art Gallery (Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada) (SIGGRAPH ’18). Association for Computing Machinery, New York, NY, USA, 381–385. </div>
</li>
</ul>
<ul>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Xiuming Zhang, Tali Dekel, Tianfan Xue, Andrew Owens, Qiurui He, Jiajun Wu, Stefanie Mueller and William T. Freeman. <br/>
 <strong><a href="https://arxiv.org/pdf/1809.05491.pdf" class="urlextern" title="https://arxiv.org/pdf/1809.05491.pdf" rel="ugc nofollow">MoSculp: Interactive Visualization of Shape and Time</a>.</strong> <br/>
 UIST 2018 - In Proceedings of the 31th Annual Symposium on User Interface Software and Technology.</div>
</li>
</ul>
<ul>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Mathieu Le Goc, Charles Perin, Sean Follmer, Jean-Daniel Fekete, and Pierre Dragicevic. <br/>
 <strong><a href="https://hal.inria.fr/hal-01848436/document" class="urlextern" title="https://hal.inria.fr/hal-01848436/document" rel="ugc nofollow">Dynamic Composite Data Physicalization Using Wheeled Micro-Robots.</a></strong> <br/>
 TVCG - IEEE Transactions on Visualization and Computer Graphics.</div>
</li>
</ul>
<ul>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Christoph Bader, Dominik Kolb, James C. Weaver, Sunanda Sharma, Ahmed Hosny, João Costa, and Neri Oxman. <br/>
 <strong><a href="http://advances.sciencemag.org/content/advances/4/5/eaas8652.full.pdf" class="urlextern" title="http://advances.sciencemag.org/content/advances/4/5/eaas8652.full.pdf" rel="ugc nofollow">Making data matter: Voxel printing for the digital fabrication of data across scales and domains.</a></strong> <br/>
 Science Advances 4.5 (2018)</div>
</li>
</ul>
<ul>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Dario Rodighiero <br/>
<strong><a href="https://infoscience.epfl.ch/record/255016/files/Article.pdf" class="urlextern" title="https://infoscience.epfl.ch/record/255016/files/Article.pdf" rel="ugc nofollow">Printing Walkable Visualizations.</a></strong> <br/>
 TI 2018 - Proceedings of the 5th Biennial Transdisciplinary Imaging Conference 2018.</div>
</li>
</ul>
<ul>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Kellyann Geurts <br/>
<strong><a href="https://ndownloader.figshare.com/files/11133053" class="urlextern" title="https://ndownloader.figshare.com/files/11133053" rel="ugc nofollow">Imagining Thought in Digital Space: 3D Printed Thoughts.</a></strong> <br/>
 TI 2018 - Proceedings of the 5th Biennial Transdisciplinary Imaging Conference 2018.</div>
</li>
</ul>
<ul>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Alice Thudt, Uta Hinrichs, Samuel Huron and Sheelagh Carpendale. <br/>
<strong><a href="https://research-repository.st-andrews.ac.uk/bitstream/handle/10023/13267/CPV_CameraReady.pdf?sequence=1&amp;isAllowed=y" class="urlextern" title="https://research-repository.st-andrews.ac.uk/bitstream/handle/10023/13267/CPV_CameraReady.pdf?sequence=1&amp;isAllowed=y" rel="ugc nofollow">Self-reflection and personal physicalization construction.</a></strong> <br/>
 CHI 2018 - Proceedings of the 2018 CHI Conference on Human Factors in Computing Systems. ACM, 2018.</div>
</li>
</ul>
<ul>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Marinos Koutsomichalis. <br/>
<strong><a href="https://drive.google.com/file/d/1IuHcG2Z05N_lFcTnfWb3t7MlhlEM4xN2/view" class="urlextern" title="https://drive.google.com/file/d/1IuHcG2Z05N_lFcTnfWb3t7MlhlEM4xN2/view" rel="ugc nofollow">Objektivisering: Text Physicalization and Self-introspective Post-digital Objecthood.</a></strong> <br/>
 TEI 2018 - Proceedings of the Twelfth International Conference on Tangible, Embedded, and Embodied Interaction.</div>
</li>
</ul>
<ul>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Ricardo Sosa, Victoria Gerrard, Antonio Esparza, Rebeca Torres, Robbie Napper. <br/>
<strong><a href="https://www.designsociety.org/download-publication/40570/DATA+OBJECTS%3A+DESIGN+PRINCIPLES+FOR+DATA+PHYSICALISATION" class="urlextern" title="https://www.designsociety.org/download-publication/40570/DATA+OBJECTS%3A+DESIGN+PRINCIPLES+FOR+DATA+PHYSICALISATION" rel="ugc nofollow">Data Objects: Design Principles for Data Physicalization.</a></strong> <br/>
 DESIGN 2018 - International Design Conference.</div>
</li>
</ul>
<ul>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Noura Howell, John Chuang, Abigail De Kosnik, Greg Niemeyer, Kimiko Ryokai <br/>
<strong><a href="https://www.researchgate.net/publication/328685535_Emotional_Biosensing_Exploring_Critical_Alternatives" class="urlextern" title="https://www.researchgate.net/publication/328685535_Emotional_Biosensing_Exploring_Critical_Alternatives" rel="ugc nofollow">Emotional Biosensing: Exploring Critical Alternatives.</a></strong> <br/>
 CSCW 2018</div>
</li>
</ul>

<p>
<strong>2017</strong>
</p>
<ul>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Pon, Aura, Eric Pattison, Lawrence Fyfe, Laurie Radford, and Sheelagh Carpendale. <br/>
 <strong><a href="https://doi.org/10.1145/3024969.3024974" class="urlextern" title="https://doi.org/10.1145/3024969.3024974" rel="ugc nofollow">Torrent: Integrating embodiment, physicalization and musification in music-making.</a></strong> <br/>
 In Proceedings of the Eleventh International Conference on Tangible, Embedded, and Embodied Interaction, pp. 209-216. 2017. DOI: 10.1145/3024969.3024974</div>
</li>
</ul>
<ul>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Khot, Rohit Ashok, Deepti Aggarwal, Ryan Pennings, Larissa Hjorth, and Florian &#039;Floyd&#039; Mueller.  <br/>
 <strong><a href="https://dl.acm.org/doi/abs/10.1145/3025453.3025980" class="urlextern" title="https://dl.acm.org/doi/abs/10.1145/3025453.3025980" rel="ugc nofollow">Edipulse: investigating a playful approach to self-monitoring through 3D printed chocolate treats.</a></strong> <br/>
 In Proceedings of the 2017 CHI conference on human factors in computing systems, pp. 6593-6607. 2017. DOI: 10.1145/3025453.3025980</div>
</li>
</ul>
<ul>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Khot, Rohit Ashok, Simon Stusak, Andreas Butz, and Florian &#039;Floyd&#039; Mueller. <br/>
 <strong><a href="https://link.springer.com/chapter/10.1007/978-3-319-68059-0_5" class="urlextern" title="https://link.springer.com/chapter/10.1007/978-3-319-68059-0_5" rel="ugc nofollow">10 design themes for creating 3D printed physical representations of physical activity data.</a></strong> In IFIP Conference on Human-Computer Interaction, pp. 85-105. Springer, Cham, 2017.</div>
</li>
</ul>
<ul>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Deborah Lupton. <br/>
<strong><a href="https://simplysociology.files.wordpress.com/2017/03/lupton-2017-feeling-data-touch-and-data-sense.pdf" class="urlextern" title="https://simplysociology.files.wordpress.com/2017/03/lupton-2017-feeling-data-touch-and-data-sense.pdf" rel="ugc nofollow">Feeling your data: Touch and making sense of personal digital data.</a></strong> <br/>
 New Media &amp; Society. July 2017.</div>
</li>
</ul>
<ul>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Alberto Boem and Hiroo Iwata. <br/>
<strong><a href="http://www.albertoboem.com/wp-content/uploads/2017/04/Boem_Iwata_AISociety-2017.pdf" class="urlextern" title="http://www.albertoboem.com/wp-content/uploads/2017/04/Boem_Iwata_AISociety-2017.pdf" rel="ugc nofollow">&quot;It&#039;s like holding a human heart&quot;: the design of Vital + Morph, a shape-changing interface for remote monitoring.</a></strong> <br/>
 AI &amp; Society: Knowledge, Culture and Communication. 1435-5655.</div>
</li>
</ul>
<ul>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Eslam Nofal, Rabee Reffat, and Andrew Vande Moere. <br/>
<strong><a href="https://lirias.kuleuven.be/bitstream/123456789/587318/1/Phygital+Heritage+%28Nofal+et+al%29+iLRN2017.pdf" class="urlextern" title="https://lirias.kuleuven.be/bitstream/123456789/587318/1/Phygital+Heritage+%28Nofal+et+al%29+iLRN2017.pdf" rel="ugc nofollow">Phygital|Heritage: an Approach for Heritage Communication.</a></strong> <br/>
 Proceedings of the Third Immersive Learning Research Network Conference. Verlag der Technischen Universität Graz, 2017.</div>
</li>
</ul>
<ul>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Louis Thibault and François Bérard. <br/>
<strong><a href="http://tripet.imag.fr/publs/2017/CHI17_Berard_HPCD.pdf" class="urlextern" title="http://tripet.imag.fr/publs/2017/CHI17_Berard_HPCD.pdf" rel="ugc nofollow">The Object Inside: Assessing 3D Examination with a Spherical Handheld Perspective-Corrected Display.</a></strong> <br/>
 CHI 2017 - Proceedings of the SIGCHI Conference on Human Factors in Computing Systems. ACM, 2017.</div>
</li>
</ul>
<ul>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Wesley Willett, Yvonne Jansen, and Pierre Dragicevic. <br/>
<strong><a href="https://hal.inria.fr/hal-01377901/document" class="urlextern" title="https://hal.inria.fr/hal-01377901/document" rel="ugc nofollow">Embedded Data Representations.</a></strong> <br/>
 TVCG - IEEE Transactions on Visualization and Computer Graphics 23.1 (2017): 461-470.</div>
</li>
</ul>
<ul>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Faisal Taher, Yvonne Jansen, Jonathan Woodruff, John Hardy, Kasper Hornbæk, and Jason Alexander. <br/>
<strong><a href="http://eprints.lancs.ac.uk/82634/1/VIS16_PhysicalBarChart.pdf" class="urlextern" title="http://eprints.lancs.ac.uk/82634/1/VIS16_PhysicalBarChart.pdf" rel="ugc nofollow">Investigating the Use of a Dynamic Physical Bar Chart for Data Exploration and Presentation.</a></strong> <br/>
 TVCG - IEEE Transactions on Visualization and Computer Graphics 23.1 (2017): 451-460.</div>
</li>
</ul>
<ul>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Sergej Stoppel and Stefan Bruckner. <br/>
<strong><a href="http://www.ii.uib.no/vis/publications/publication/2017/pdfs/Stoppel_VIS2017_Volvelle.pdf" class="urlextern" title="http://www.ii.uib.no/vis/publications/publication/2017/pdfs/Stoppel_VIS2017_Volvelle.pdf" rel="ugc nofollow">Vol²velle: Printable Interactive Volume Visualization.</a></strong> <br/>
 TVCG - IEEE Transactions on Visualization and Computer Graphics 23.1 (2017): 861-870.</div>
</li>
</ul>
<ul>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Carmen Hull and Wesley Willett. <br/>
 <strong><a href="http://library.usc.edu.ph/ACM/CHI%202017/1proc/p1217.pdf" class="urlextern" title="http://library.usc.edu.ph/ACM/CHI%202017/1proc/p1217.pdf" rel="ugc nofollow">Building with Data: Architectural Models as Inspiration for Data Physicalization.</a></strong> <br/>
 In Proceedings of the 2017 CHI Conference on Human Factors in Computing Systems (CHI &#039;17). Association for Computing Machinery, New York, NY, USA, 1217–1264.</div>
</li>
</ul>

<p>
<strong> 2016 </strong>
</p>
<ul>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Yvonne Jansen, Kasper Hornbæk. <br/>
<strong><a href="https://hal.inria.fr/hal-01219057/document" class="urlextern" title="https://hal.inria.fr/hal-01219057/document" rel="ugc nofollow">A Psychophysical Investigation of Size as Physical Variable.</a></strong> <br/>
 TVCG - IEEE Transactions on Visualization and Computer Graphics, 22:1. IEEE, 2016.</div>
</li>
</ul>
<ul>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Steven Houben, Connie Golsteijn, Sarah Gallacher, Rose Johnson, Saskia Bakker, Nicolai Marquardt, Licia Capra and Yvonne Rogers. <br/>
<strong><a href="https://www.ucl.ac.uk/uclic/research/CHI2016/Houben.CHI.2016.pdf" class="urlextern" title="https://www.ucl.ac.uk/uclic/research/CHI2016/Houben.CHI.2016.pdf" rel="ugc nofollow">Physikit: Data Engagement Through Physical Ambient Visualizations in the Home.</a></strong> <br/>
 CHI 2016 - Proceedings of the SIGCHI Conference on Human Factors in Computing Systems. ACM, 2016.</div>
</li>
</ul>
<ul>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Saiganesh Swaminathan, Thijs Roumen, Robert Kovacs, David Stangl, Stefanie Mueller, and Patrick Baudisch. <br/>
<strong><a href="http://www.saiganesh.net/pdfs/Linespace-CHI2016.pdf" class="urlextern" title="http://www.saiganesh.net/pdfs/Linespace-CHI2016.pdf" rel="ugc nofollow">Linespace: A Sensemaking Platform for the Blind</a></strong> <br/>
 CHI 2016 - Proceedings of the SIGCHI Conference on Human Factors in Computing Systems. ACM, 2016.</div>
</li>
</ul>
<ul>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Mathieu Le Goc, Lawrence H. Kim, Ali Parsaei, Jean-Daniel Fekete, Pierre Dragicevic, and Sean Follmer. <br/>
<strong><a href="https://hal.inria.fr/hal-01391281/document" class="urlextern" title="https://hal.inria.fr/hal-01391281/document" rel="ugc nofollow">Zooids: Building Blocks for Swarm User Interfaces.</a></strong> <a href="https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZVdAfDMP3m0 Video" class="urlextern" title="https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZVdAfDMP3m0 Video" rel="ugc nofollow">https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZVdAfDMP3m0 Video</a> <br/>
 UIST 2016 - In Proceedings of the 29th Annual Symposium on User Interface Software and Technology, pp. 97-109. ACM, 2016.</div>
</li>
</ul>
<ul>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Rohit Ashok Khot, Josh Andres, Jennifer Lai, Juerg von Kaenel, and Florian &#039;Floyd&#039; Mueller. <br/>
 <strong><a href="http://exertiongameslab.org/wp-content/uploads/2016/06/fantibles_dis2016.pdf" class="urlextern" title="http://exertiongameslab.org/wp-content/uploads/2016/06/fantibles_dis2016.pdf" rel="ugc nofollow">Fantibles: Capturing Cricket Fan&#039;s Story in 3D.</a></strong> <br/>
 DIS 2016 - In Proceedings of the 2016 ACM Conference on Designing Interactive Systems, pp.  883-894.</div>
</li>
</ul>
<ul>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Michael C. Thrun, Florian Lerch, and Jörn Lötsch. <br/>
<strong><a href="http://wscg.zcu.cz/wscg2016/short/A43-full.pdf" class="urlextern" title="http://wscg.zcu.cz/wscg2016/short/A43-full.pdf" rel="ugc nofollow">Visualization and 3D Printing of Multivariate Data of Biomarkers.</a></strong> <br/>
 International Conference in Central Europe on Computer Graphics, Visualization and Computer Vision, 2016.</div>
</li>
</ul>
<ul>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Tiffany Wun, Jennifer Payne, Samuel Huron, and Sheelagh Carpendale. <br/>
<strong><a href="https://pdfs.semanticscholar.org/6293/73b735326df73c28364118d28e66689de3b6.pdf" class="urlextern" title="https://pdfs.semanticscholar.org/6293/73b735326df73c28364118d28e66689de3b6.pdf" rel="ugc nofollow">Comparing Bar Chart Authoring with Microsoft Excel and Tangible Tiles</a></strong> <br/>
 EuroVis 2016 - Eurographics Conference on Visualization, 2016.</div>
</li>
</ul>
<ul>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Fadi Botros, Charles Perin, Bon Adriel Aseniero and Sheelagh Carpendale. <br/>
<strong><a href="http://charles.perin.free.fr/data/pub/goandgrow.pdf" class="urlextern" title="http://charles.perin.free.fr/data/pub/goandgrow.pdf" rel="ugc nofollow">Go and Grow: Mapping Personal Data to a Living Plant.</a></strong> <br/>
 AVI 2016 - Proceedings of the Working Conference on Advanced Visual Interfaces. ACM, 2016.</div>
</li>
</ul>
<ul>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Trevor Hogan and Eva Hornecker. <br/>
<strong><a href="http://iwc.oxfordjournals.org/content/early/2016/05/20/iwc.iww015.abstract" class="urlextern" title="http://iwc.oxfordjournals.org/content/early/2016/05/20/iwc.iww015.abstract" rel="ugc nofollow">Towards a Design Space for Multisensory Data Representation.</a></strong> <br/>
 Interacting with Computers. Oxford Journals, 2016.</div>
</li>
</ul>
<ul>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Simon Stusak, Moritz Hobe and Andreas Butz <br/>
<strong><a href="http://www.medien.ifi.lmu.de/pubdb/publications/pub/stusak2016tei/stusak2016tei.pdf" class="urlextern" title="http://www.medien.ifi.lmu.de/pubdb/publications/pub/stusak2016tei/stusak2016tei.pdf" rel="ugc nofollow">If Your Mind Can Grasp It, Your Hands Will Help.</a></strong> <br/>
TEI 2016 - Proceedings of the 10th International ACM Conference on Tangible, Embedded and Embodied Interaction. ACM, 2016</div>
</li>
</ul>

<p>
<strong> 2015 </strong>
</p>
<ul>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Paul Bourke. <br/>
 <strong><a href="https://www.researchgate.net/profile/Paul_Bourke2/publication/276375844_Novel_physical_representations_for_the_visualisation_of_science_data_and_mathematics/links/55584d3d08ae6943a874cae3.pdf" class="urlextern" title="https://www.researchgate.net/profile/Paul_Bourke2/publication/276375844_Novel_physical_representations_for_the_visualisation_of_science_data_and_mathematics/links/55584d3d08ae6943a874cae3.pdf" rel="ugc nofollow">Novel physical representations for the visualisation of science data and mathematics</a></strong> <br/>
 CGAT 2015 - International Conference on Computer Games, Multimedia &amp; Allied Technology.</div>
</li>
</ul>
<ul>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Aditya Shekhar Nittala, Nico Li, Stephen Cartwright, Kazuki Takashima, Ehud Sharlin, and Mario Costa Sousa. <br/>
 <strong><a href="http://utouch.cpsc.ucalgary.ca/docs/Planwell-SA.pdf" class="urlextern" title="http://utouch.cpsc.ucalgary.ca/docs/Planwell-SA.pdf" rel="ugc nofollow">PLANWELL: spatial user interface for collaborative petroleum well-planning</a></strong> <br/>
 SIGGRAPH ASIA 2015 Mobile Graphics and Interactive Applications.</div>
</li>
</ul>
<ul>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Yvonne Jansen, Pierre Dragicevic, Petra Isenberg, Jason Alexander, Abhijit Karnik, Johan Kildal, Sriram Subramanian, Kasper Hornbæk. <br/>
<strong><a href="https://hal.inria.fr/hal-01120152/document" class="urlextern" title="https://hal.inria.fr/hal-01120152/document" rel="ugc nofollow">Opportunities and Challenges for Data Physicalization.</a></strong> <a href="https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_Rst_2i2crg Talk" class="urlextern" title="https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_Rst_2i2crg Talk" rel="ugc nofollow">https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_Rst_2i2crg Talk</a> <br/>
CHI 2015 - Proceedings of the SIGCHI Conference on Human Factors in Computing Systems. ACM, 2015.</div>
</li>
</ul>
<ul>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Rohit Ashok Khot, Jeewon Lee, Deepti Aggarwal, Larissa Hjorth, Florian Mueller. <br/>
 <strong><a href="http://exertiongameslab.org/wp-content/uploads/2011/07/tastybeats_chi2015.pdf" class="urlextern" title="http://exertiongameslab.org/wp-content/uploads/2011/07/tastybeats_chi2015.pdf" rel="ugc nofollow">TastyBeats: Designing Palatable Representations of Physical Activity.</a></strong> <br/>
CHI 2015 - Proceedings of the SIGCHI Conference on Human Factors in Computing Systems. ACM, 2015.</div>
</li>
</ul>
<ul>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Moon-Hwan Lee, Seijin Cha, Tek-Jin Nam. <br/>
<strong><a href="http://www.researchgate.net/profile/Moon_Hwan_Lee/publication/275347183_Patina_Engraver_Visualizing_Activity_Logs_as_Patina_in_Fashionable_Trackers/links/55430f770cf24107d3948dd1.pdf" class="urlextern" title="http://www.researchgate.net/profile/Moon_Hwan_Lee/publication/275347183_Patina_Engraver_Visualizing_Activity_Logs_as_Patina_in_Fashionable_Trackers/links/55430f770cf24107d3948dd1.pdf" rel="ugc nofollow">Patina Engraver: Visualizing Activity Logs as Patina in Fashionable Trackers.</a></strong> <br/>
CHI 2015 - Proceedings of the SIGCHI Conference on Human Factors in Computing Systems. ACM, 2015.</div>
</li>
</ul>
<ul>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Bettina Nissen, John Bowers. <br/>
<strong><a href="https://makingdatathings.files.wordpress.com/2015/04/nissen-datatranslations-finalsmall.pdf" class="urlextern" title="https://makingdatathings.files.wordpress.com/2015/04/nissen-datatranslations-finalsmall.pdf" rel="ugc nofollow">Data-Things: Digital Fabrication Situated within Participatory Data Translation Activities.</a></strong> <br/>
CHI 2015 - Proceedings of the SIGCHI Conference on Human Factors in Computing Systems. ACM, 2015.</div>
</li>
</ul>
<ul>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Faisal Taher, John Hardy, Abhijit Karnik, Christian Weichel, Yvonne Jansen, Kasper Hornbæk, Jason Alexander. <br/>
<strong><a href="http://eprints.lancs.ac.uk/72692/1/OA_2015_04_CHI_Emerge.pdf" class="urlextern" title="http://eprints.lancs.ac.uk/72692/1/OA_2015_04_CHI_Emerge.pdf" rel="ugc nofollow">Exploring Interactions with Physically Dynamic Bar Charts.</a></strong> <br/>
CHI 2015 - Proceedings of the SIGCHI Conference on Human Factors in Computing Systems. ACM, 2015.</div>
</li>
</ul>
<ul>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Alex S Taylor, Siân E Lindley, Tim Regan, David Sweeney, Vasillis Vlachokyriakos, Lillie Grainger, Jessica Lingel. <br/>
<strong><a href="http://ast.io/wp-content/uploads/2015/02/Data-in-place.pdf" class="urlextern" title="http://ast.io/wp-content/uploads/2015/02/Data-in-place.pdf" rel="ugc nofollow">Data-in-Place: Thinking through the Relations Between Data and Community.</a></strong> <br/>
CHI 2015 - Proceedings of the SIGCHI Conference on Human Factors in Computing Systems. ACM, 2015.</div>
</li>
</ul>

<p>
<strong> 2014 </strong>
</p>
<ul>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Samuel Huron, Yvonne Jansen, Sheelagh Carpendale. <br/>
<strong><a href="https://hal.archives-ouvertes.fr/hal-01024053/document" class="urlextern" title="https://hal.archives-ouvertes.fr/hal-01024053/document" rel="ugc nofollow">Constructing Visual Representations: Investigating the Use of Tangible Tokens.</a></strong> <br/>
TVCG - IEEE Transactions on Visualization and Computer Graphics, 20(12): 2102-2111, 2014.</div>
</li>
</ul>
<ul>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Simon Stusak, Aurélien Tabard, Franziska Sauka, Rohit Ashok Khot, Andreas Butz. <br/>
<strong><a href="https://www.medien.ifi.lmu.de/pubdb/publications/pub/stusak2014vis/stusak2014vis.pdf" class="urlextern" title="https://www.medien.ifi.lmu.de/pubdb/publications/pub/stusak2014vis/stusak2014vis.pdf" rel="ugc nofollow">Activity sculptures: exploring the impact of physical visualizations on running activity.</a></strong> <br/>
TVCG - IEEE Transactions on Visualization and Computer Graphics, 20(12): 2201 - 2210, 2014.</div>
</li>
</ul>
<ul>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Samuel Huron, Sheelagh Carpendale, Alice Thudt, Anthony Tang, Michael Mauerer. <br/>
<strong><a href="http://innovis.cpsc.ucalgary.ca/innovis/uploads/Publications/Publications/huron2014.pdf" class="urlextern" title="http://innovis.cpsc.ucalgary.ca/innovis/uploads/Publications/Publications/huron2014.pdf" rel="ugc nofollow">Constructive Visualization.</a></strong> <br/>
DIS2014 - Conference on Designing interactive systems. ACM, New York, NY, USA, 433-442.</div>
</li>
</ul>
<ul>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Rohit Ashok Khot, Larissa Hjorth, Florian &#039;Floyd&#039; Mueller. <br/>
<strong><a href="http://exertiongameslab.org/wp-content/uploads/2011/07/understanding_3d_chi2014.pdf" class="urlextern" title="http://exertiongameslab.org/wp-content/uploads/2011/07/understanding_3d_chi2014.pdf" rel="ugc nofollow">Understanding physical activity through 3D printed material artifacts.</a></strong> <br/>
CHI2014 – Proceedings of the SIGCHI Conference on Human Factors in Computing Systems, pages 3835-3844. ACM, 2014.</div>
</li>
</ul>
<ul>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Saiganesh Swaminathan, Conglei Shi, Yvonne Jansen, Pierre Dragicevic, Lora Oehlberg, Jean-Daniel Fekete. <br/>
<strong><a href="https://hal.inria.fr/hal-00935978/file/Supporting_the_Design_and_Fabrication_of_Physical_Visualizations.pdf" class="urlextern" title="https://hal.inria.fr/hal-00935978/file/Supporting_the_Design_and_Fabrication_of_Physical_Visualizations.pdf" rel="ugc nofollow">Supporting the design and fabrication of physical visualizations.</a></strong> <br/>
CHI2014 – Proceedings of the SIGCHI Conference on Human Factors in Computing Systems, pages 3845-3854. ACM, 2014.</div>
</li>
</ul>
<ul>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Shaun Kane and Jeffrey Bigham. <br/>
<strong><a href="https://www.cs.cmu.edu/~jbigham/pubs/pdfs/2014/stemx.pdf" class="urlextern" title="https://www.cs.cmu.edu/~jbigham/pubs/pdfs/2014/stemx.pdf" rel="ugc nofollow">Tracking@ stemxcomet: Teaching Programming to Blind Students via 3D Printing, Crisis Management, and Twitter.</a></strong> <br/>
SIGCSE &#039;14 - Proceedings of the 45th ACM technical symposium on Computer science education.</div>
</li>
</ul>

<p>
<strong> 2013 </strong>
</p>
<ul>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Trevor Hogan, and Eva Hornecker. <br/>
<strong><a href="http://www.ehornecker.de/Papers/DPPI13_paper2_Final.pdf" class="urlextern" title="http://www.ehornecker.de/Papers/DPPI13_paper2_Final.pdf" rel="ugc nofollow">Blending the repertory grid technique with focus groups to reveal rich design relevant insight.</a></strong> <br/>
DPPI 2013 - Designing Pleasurable Products and Interfaces, ACM 2013, 116-125.</div>
</li>
</ul>
<ul>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Yvonne Jansen and Pierre Dragicevic. <br/>
<strong><a href="https://hal.inria.fr/hal-00847218v2/document" class="urlextern" title="https://hal.inria.fr/hal-00847218v2/document" rel="ugc nofollow">An interaction model for visualizations beyond the desktop.</a></strong> <br/>
TVCG - IEEE Transactions on Visualization and Computer Graphics, 19(12): 2396-2405, 2013.</div>
</li>
</ul>
<ul>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Yvonne Jansen, Pierre Dragicevic, Jean-Daniel Fekete. <br/>
<strong><a href="https://hal.inria.fr/hal-00781831/document" class="urlextern" title="https://hal.inria.fr/hal-00781831/document" rel="ugc nofollow">Evaluating the efficiency of physical visualizations.</a></strong> <br/>
CHI 2013 – Proceedings of the SIGCHI Conference on Human Factors in Computing Systems, pages 2593- 2602. ACM, 2013.</div>
</li>
</ul>

<p>
<strong> 2012 </strong>
</p>
<ul>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Stephen Barrass. <br/>
<strong><a href="https://www.researchgate.net/profile/Stephen_Barrass/publication/252627125_Digital_Fabrication_of_Acoustic_Sonifications/links/548cccd00cf2d1800d80c6e3.pdf" class="urlextern" title="https://www.researchgate.net/profile/Stephen_Barrass/publication/252627125_Digital_Fabrication_of_Acoustic_Sonifications/links/548cccd00cf2d1800d80c6e3.pdf" rel="ugc nofollow">Digital Fabrication of Acoustic Sonifications</a></strong>. <br/>
J. Audio Eng. Soc. 60, 9 (2012), 709–715.</div>
</li>
</ul>
<ul>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Craig Brown and Amy Hurst. <br/>
<strong><a href="http://www.tiii.be/wp-content/uploads/2012/03/131-224-brown.done_.pdf" class="urlextern" title="http://www.tiii.be/wp-content/uploads/2012/03/131-224-brown.done_.pdf" rel="ugc nofollow">VizTouch: automatically generated tactile visualizations of coordinate spaces</a></strong>. <br/>
 TEI 2012 - Proceedings of the Sixth International Conference on Tangible, Embedded and Embodied Interaction, pages 131-138, ACM, 2012.</div>
</li>
</ul>
<ul>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Ian Gwilt, Alaster Yoxall, and Koutaro Sano. <br/>
 <strong><a href="https://www.designsociety.org/download-publication/32468/enhancing_the_understanding_of_statistical_data_through_the_creation_of_physical_objects" class="urlextern" title="https://www.designsociety.org/download-publication/32468/enhancing_the_understanding_of_statistical_data_through_the_creation_of_physical_objects" rel="ugc nofollow">Enhancing the understanding of statistical data through the creation of physical objects</a></strong>. <br/>
 The 2nd International Conference on Design Creativity (Proceedings). UK, Design Society, pages 117–126, 2012.</div>
</li>
</ul>
<ul>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Trevor Hogan, and Eva Hornecker. <br/>
<strong><a href="http://www.ehornecker.de/Papers/HAID12RepModality.pdf" class="urlextern" title="http://www.ehornecker.de/Papers/HAID12RepModality.pdf" rel="ugc nofollow">How does representation modality affect user-experience of data artifacts?</a></strong> <br/>
Haptic &amp; Audio Interaction Design, pages 141–151. Springer, 2012.</div>
</li>
</ul>

<p>
<strong> 2010 </strong>
</p>
<ul>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Andrew Vande Moere, Stephanie Patel. <br/>
<strong><a href="http://infoscape.org/publications/vinci09.pdf" class="urlextern" title="http://infoscape.org/publications/vinci09.pdf" rel="ugc nofollow">The Physical Visualization of Information: Designing Data Sculptures in an Educational Context.</a></strong> <br/>
Visual Information Communication, pages 1-23. Springer, 2010.</div>
</li>
</ul>

<p>
<strong> 2008 </strong>
</p>
<ul>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Jack Zhao and Andrew Vande Moere. <br/>
<strong><a href="http://infoscape.org/publications/dimea08.pdf" class="urlextern" title="http://infoscape.org/publications/dimea08.pdf" rel="ugc nofollow">Embodiment in Data Sculpture: a Model of the Physical Visualization of Information.</a></strong> <br/>
DIMEA 2008 - Proceedings of the 3rd international conference on Digital Interactive Media in Entertainment and Arts, pages 343-350. ACM, 2008.</div>
</li>
</ul>

<p>
<strong> 1998 </strong>
</p>
<ul>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Michael Bailey, Klaus Schulten and John E Johnson. <br/>
<strong><a href="http://www.ks.uiuc.edu/Publications/Papers/PDF/BAIL98/BAIL98.pdf" class="urlextern" title="http://www.ks.uiuc.edu/Publications/Papers/PDF/BAIL98/BAIL98.pdf" rel="ugc nofollow">The use of solid physical models for the study of macromolecular assembly.</a></strong> <br/>
Current Opinion in Structural Biology, 8(2), 202-208.</div>
</li>
</ul>

<p>
<strong> 1997 </strong>
</p>
<ul>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Dru Clark, Michael Bailey. <br/>
<strong><a href="http://web.engr.oregonstate.edu/~mjb/WebMjb/Papers/photomap.pdf" class="urlextern" title="http://web.engr.oregonstate.edu/~mjb/WebMjb/Papers/photomap.pdf" rel="ugc nofollow">Visualization of height field data with physical models and texture photomapping</a></strong> <br/>
 Proceedings of Visualization &#039;97</div>
</li>
</ul>

</div>
<!-- EDIT{&quot;target&quot;:&quot;section&quot;,&quot;name&quot;:&quot;Peer-reviewed full papers&quot;,&quot;hid&quot;:&quot;peer-reviewed_full_papers&quot;,&quot;codeblockOffset&quot;:0,&quot;secid&quot;:2,&quot;range&quot;:&quot;663-33860&quot;} -->
<h1 class="sectionedit3" id="peer-reviewed_short_papers">Peer-reviewed short papers</h1>
<div class="level1">

<p>
<strong>2023</strong>
</p>
<pre class="code">* Rick van Loenhout, Champika Ranasinghe, Auriol Degbelo, and Nacir Bouali.  \\ **[[https://dl.acm.org/doi/10.1145/3491101.3519638|Physicalizing Sustainable Development Goals Data: An Example with SDG 7 (Affordable and Clean Energy).]]** \\ In Extended Abstracts of the 2022 CHI Conference on Human Factors in Computing Systems (CHI EA &#039;22). Association for Computing Machinery, New York, NY, USA, Article 346, 1–7. \\ https://doi.org/10.1145/3491101.3519638</pre>

<p>
<strong>2022</strong>
</p>
<ul>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Lee Jones, Greta Grip, and Boris Kourtoukov.  <br/>
 <strong><a href="https://doi.org/10.1145/3490149.3507783" class="urlextern" title="https://doi.org/10.1145/3490149.3507783" rel="ugc nofollow">The Life of a Building: Machine Knitting a Year of Visitor Data and Online Community Participation During a Pandemic.</a></strong>   <br/>
 In Sixteenth International Conference on Tangible, Embedded, and Embodied Interaction (TEI &#039;22). Association for Computing Machinery, New York, NY, USA, Article 80, 1–5. <br/>
<a href="https://doi.org/10.1145/3490149.3507783" class="urlextern" title="https://doi.org/10.1145/3490149.3507783" rel="ugc nofollow">https://doi.org/10.1145/3490149.3507783</a></div>
</li>
</ul>
<ul>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Annika Hinze, Nicholas Vanderschantz, Nicole Sijnja, Bill Rogers, and Sally Jo Cunningham.  <br/>
 <strong><a href="https://doi.org/10.1145/3490149.3505582" class="urlextern" title="https://doi.org/10.1145/3490149.3505582" rel="ugc nofollow">Physical Metadata Visualisation: The Knitted Personal Library.</a></strong>  <br/>
 In Sixteenth International Conference on Tangible, Embedded, and Embodied Interaction (TEI &#039;22). Association for Computing Machinery, New York, NY, USA, Article 78, 1–7. <br/>
<a href="https://doi.org/10.1145/3490149.3505582" class="urlextern" title="https://doi.org/10.1145/3490149.3505582" rel="ugc nofollow">https://doi.org/10.1145/3490149.3505582</a></div>
</li>
</ul>

<p>
<strong>2020</strong>
</p>
<ul>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Schindler, Marwin, Hsiang-Yun Wu, and Renata G. Raidou. <br/>
 <strong><a href="https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/abstract/document/9331275/" class="urlextern" title="https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/abstract/document/9331275/" rel="ugc nofollow">The Anatomical Edutainer.</a></strong> <br/>
 In 2020 IEEE Visualization Conference (VIS), pp. 1-5. IEEE, 2020. <br/>
 10.1109/VIS47514.2020.00007.</div>
</li>
</ul>

<p>
<strong> 2018 </strong>
</p>
<ul>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Maxime Daniel, Guillaume Rivière, and Nadine Couture. <br/>
<strong><a href="http://www.guillaumeriviere.name/pub/papers/illuminated-ring_tei18_wip.pdf" class="urlextern" title="http://www.guillaumeriviere.name/pub/papers/illuminated-ring_tei18_wip.pdf" rel="ugc nofollow">Designing an Expandable Illuminated Ring to Build an Actuated Ring Chart.</a></strong> <br/>
TEI 2018 - Proceedings of the 12th International ACM Conference on Tangible, Embedded and Embodied Interaction. ACM, 2018</div>
</li>
</ul>

<p>
<strong> 2016 </strong>
</p>
<ul>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Themis Omirou, Asier Marzo Perez, Sriram Subramanian, and Anne Roudaut. <br/>
<strong><a href="http://research-information.bristol.ac.uk/files/71663722/FloatingCharts_Pure.pdf" class="urlextern" title="http://research-information.bristol.ac.uk/files/71663722/FloatingCharts_Pure.pdf" rel="ugc nofollow">Floating charts: Data plotting using free-floating acoustically levitated representations</a></strong> <br/>
3DUI 2016 - In 2016 IEEE Symposium on 3D User Interfaces, pp. 187-190. IEEE, 2016.</div>
</li>
</ul>
<ul>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Jonna Häkkilä and Lasse Virtanen. <br/>
<strong><a href="/dataphys-dokuwiki/aesthetic" class="wikilink2" title="aesthetic" rel="nofollow" data-wiki-id="aesthetic">Physical Items for Visualizing Personal Sleep Data</a></strong> <br/>
MobileHCI 2016 - Adjunct, September 06-09, 2016, Florence, Italy</div>
</li>
</ul>

<p>
<strong> 2015 </strong>
</p>
<ul>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Simon Stusak, Jeannette Schwarz and Andreas Butz. <br/>
<strong><a href="https://www.researchgate.net/publication/275966833_Evaluating_the_Memorability_of_Physical_Visualizations" class="urlextern" title="https://www.researchgate.net/publication/275966833_Evaluating_the_Memorability_of_Physical_Visualizations" rel="ugc nofollow">Evaluating the Memorability of Physical Visualizations</a></strong>. <br/>
CHI 2015 - Proceedings of the SIGCHI Conference on Human Factors in Computing Systems. ACM, 2015.</div>
</li>
</ul>

<p>
<strong> 2014 </strong>
</p>
<ul>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Stephen Barrass. <br/>
 <strong><a href="http://www.york.ac.uk/media/c2d2/media/sonihedconference/Barrass_SoniHED_2014.pdf" class="urlextern" title="http://www.york.ac.uk/media/c2d2/media/sonihedconference/Barrass_SoniHED_2014.pdf" rel="ugc nofollow">Acoustic sonification of blood pressure in the form of a singing bowl</a></strong> <br/>
 Proceedings of the Conference on Sonification in Health and Environmental Data, York University, UK. 2014.</div>
</li>
</ul>
<ul>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Christian Geiger, Michael Hogen, Jörn Hornig, Michael Schaar. <br/>
<strong><a href="https://www.researchgate.net/profile/Christian_Geiger/publication/262161669_Datenreise_digital_bits_made_tangible/links/54a6ba960cf267bdb909e3eb.pdf" class="urlextern" title="https://www.researchgate.net/profile/Christian_Geiger/publication/262161669_Datenreise_digital_bits_made_tangible/links/54a6ba960cf267bdb909e3eb.pdf" rel="ugc nofollow">Datenreise - Digital Bits Made Tangible.</a></strong> <br/>
TEI 2014 - Proceedings of the 8th International Conference on Tangible, Embedded and Embodied Interaction, Pages 283-284. ACM, 2014.</div>
</li>
</ul>
<ul>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Alireza Rezaeian and Jared Donovan. <br/>
 <strong><a href="http://eprints.qut.edu.au/70452/2/Vinci_Design_of_a_Tangible_Data_Visualization.pdf" class="urlextern" title="http://eprints.qut.edu.au/70452/2/Vinci_Design_of_a_Tangible_Data_Visualization.pdf" rel="ugc nofollow">Design of a Tangible Data Visualization.</a></strong> <br/>
VINCI 2014 - Proceedings of the 7th International Symposium on Visual Information Communication and Interaction, pages 232-235. ACM, 2014.</div>
</li>
</ul>
<ul>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Pepijn Fens and Mathias Funk. <br/>
 <strong><a href="https://pure.tue.nl/ws/portalfiles/portal/26979929" class="urlextern" title="https://pure.tue.nl/ws/portalfiles/portal/26979929" rel="ugc nofollow">Personal Health Data: Visualization Modalities and Their Perceived Values.</a></strong> <br/>
 WSCG 2014 - Communication Papers Proceedings, Conference on Computer Graphics, Visualization and Computer Vision. pp. 339-344.</div>
</li>
</ul>
<ul>
<li class="level1"><div class="li">Wiesław Bartkowski. <br/>
 <strong><a href="https://dl.acm.org/doi/10.1145/2639189.2670277" class="urlextern" title="https://dl.acm.org/doi/10.1145/2639189.2670277" rel="ugc nofollow">A physical visualization of a living social network.</a></strong> <br/>
Proceedings of the 8th Nordic Conference on Human-Computer Interaction: Fun, Fast, Foundational (NordiCHI &#039;14). ACM NY, USA, 1067–1068.</div>
</li>
</ul>

<p>
<strong> 2013 </strong>
</p>
<ul>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Trevor Hogan and Eva Hornecker. <br/>
<strong><a href="http://www.ehornecker.de/Papers/0104-paper.pdf" class="urlextern" title="http://www.ehornecker.de/Papers/0104-paper.pdf" rel="ugc nofollow">In touch with space: embodying live data for tangible interaction.</a></strong> <br/>
TEI 2013 - Proceedings of the 7th International Conference on Tangible, Embedded and Embodied Interaction, pages 275-278. ACM, 2013.</div>
</li>
</ul>

<p>
<strong> 2011 </strong>
</p>
<ul>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Stephen Barrass. <br/>
<strong><a href="http://www.researchgate.net/publication/265728850_Physical_Sonification_Dataforms" class="urlextern" title="http://www.researchgate.net/publication/265728850_Physical_Sonification_Dataforms" rel="ugc nofollow">Physical Sonification Dataforms.</a></strong> <br/>
ICAD 2011 - The 17th International Conference on Auditory Display, 2011.</div>
</li>
</ul>

<p>
<strong> 2008 </strong>
</p>
<ul>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Andrew Vande Moere. <br/>
<strong><a href="http://infoscape.org/publications/iv08.pdf" class="urlextern" title="http://infoscape.org/publications/iv08.pdf" rel="ugc nofollow">Beyond the Tyranny of the Pixel: Exploring the Physicality of Information Visualization.</a></strong> <br/>
IV 2008 - Information Visualisation, pages 469 - 474. IEEE, 2008.</div>
</li>
</ul>

<p>
<strong> 2005 </strong>
</p>
<ul>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Mike Bailey. <br/>
<strong>Layered Manufacturing for Scientific Visualization</strong> (<strong><a href="http://web.engr.orst.edu/~mjb/WebMjb/Papers/cvpcacm.pdf" class="urlextern" title="http://web.engr.orst.edu/~mjb/WebMjb/Papers/cvpcacm.pdf" rel="ugc nofollow">author draft</a></strong>). <br/>
Commun. ACM 48, 6 (June 2005), 42-48.</div>
</li>
</ul>
<ul>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Alexandre Gillet, Michel Sanner, Daniel Stoffler and Arthur Olson. <br/>
<strong><a href="http://www.cell.com/structure/pdf/S0969-2126(05)00060-2.pdf" class="urlextern" title="http://www.cell.com/structure/pdf/S0969-2126(05)00060-2.pdf" rel="ugc nofollow">Tangible Interfaces for Structural Molecular Biology.</a></strong> <br/>
Structure, Volume 13, Issue 3, March 2005, Pages 483-491, ISSN 0969-2126.</div>
</li>
</ul>

<p>
<strong> 2004 </strong>
</p>
<ul>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> David Holstius, John Kembel, Amy Hurst, Peng-Hui Wan, Jodi Forlizzi <br/>
<strong><a href="http://www.cs.cmu.edu/~akhurst/publications/holstius04-infotropism.pdf" class="urlextern" title="http://www.cs.cmu.edu/~akhurst/publications/holstius04-infotropism.pdf" rel="ugc nofollow">Infotropism: Living and Robotic Plants as Interactive Displays</a></strong> <br/>
DIS 2004 - Conference on Designing Interactive Systems.</div>
</li>
</ul>

<p>
<strong> 2000 </strong>
</p>
<ul>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> David Nadeau and Michael Bailey <br/>
<strong><a href="http://www.sdsc.edu/~nadeau/PhD/VisualizingVolumeDataUsingPhysicalModels.pdf" class="urlextern" title="http://www.sdsc.edu/~nadeau/PhD/VisualizingVolumeDataUsingPhysicalModels.pdf" rel="ugc nofollow">Visualizing Volume Data Using Physical Models.</a></strong> <br/>
Proceedings of IEEE Visualization 2000 (pp. 497-500).</div>
</li>
</ul>

</div>
<!-- EDIT{&quot;target&quot;:&quot;section&quot;,&quot;name&quot;:&quot;Peer-reviewed short papers&quot;,&quot;hid&quot;:&quot;peer-reviewed_short_papers&quot;,&quot;codeblockOffset&quot;:0,&quot;secid&quot;:3,&quot;range&quot;:&quot;33861-40228&quot;} -->
<h1 class="sectionedit4" id="phd_dissertations">PhD dissertations</h1>
<div class="level1">

<p>
<strong> 2016 </strong>
</p>
<ul>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Trevor Hogan <br/>
<strong><a href="http://tactiledata.net/wp-content/uploads/2012/05/Data_Dasein_Web.pdf" class="urlextern" title="http://tactiledata.net/wp-content/uploads/2012/05/Data_Dasein_Web.pdf" rel="ugc nofollow">Data Data and Dasein, A Phenomenology of Human-Data Relations.</a></strong>&#039; <br/>
PhD thesis, Bauhaus-Universität Weimar, 2016.</div>
</li>
</ul>
<ul>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Simon Stusak <br/>
<strong><a href="https://edoc.ub.uni-muenchen.de/20190/1/Stusak_Simon.pdf" class="urlextern" title="https://edoc.ub.uni-muenchen.de/20190/1/Stusak_Simon.pdf" rel="ugc nofollow">Exploring the Potential of Physical Visualizations.</a></strong> <br/>
PhD thesis, University of Munich, 2 August 2016.</div>
</li>
</ul>
<ul>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Rohit Ashok Khot <br/>
<strong><a href="http://exertiongameslab.org/wp-content/uploads/2016/12/rohit_ashok_khot_phd.pdf" class="urlextern" title="http://exertiongameslab.org/wp-content/uploads/2016/12/rohit_ashok_khot_phd.pdf" rel="ugc nofollow">Understanding Material Representations of Physical Activity</a></strong> <br/>
PhD thesis, Royal Melbourne Institute of Technology, June 2016.</div>
</li>
</ul>

<p>
<strong> 2014 </strong>
</p>
<ul>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Yvonne Jansen <br/>
<strong><a href="https://hal.inria.fr/tel-00981521/document" class="urlextern" title="https://hal.inria.fr/tel-00981521/document" rel="ugc nofollow">Physical and Tangible Information Visualization.</a></strong> <br/>
PhD thesis, Université Paris-Sud, 10 March 2014.</div>
</li>
</ul>

</div>
<!-- EDIT{&quot;target&quot;:&quot;section&quot;,&quot;name&quot;:&quot;PhD dissertations&quot;,&quot;hid&quot;:&quot;phd_dissertations&quot;,&quot;codeblockOffset&quot;:0,&quot;secid&quot;:4,&quot;range&quot;:&quot;40229-41111&quot;} -->
<h1 class="sectionedit5" id="book_chapters">Book chapters</h1>
<div class="level1">

<p>
<strong> 2023 </strong>
</p>
<ul>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Sheelagh Carpendale / Adrien Segal / Alice Thudt / Sarah Hayes / Mieka West / Loren Madsen / Georgia Panagiotidou and Andrew Vand Moere / Pauline Gourlet and Thierry Dassé / Jose Duarte and EasyDataViz / Rimini Protokoll / Domstic Data Streamers / Yvonne Jansen / Stephen Barrass / Ekene Ijeoma / Volker Schweisfurth / MINN_LAB Design Collective / Nick Dulake and Ian Gwilt / Pierre Dragicevic / David Sweeney, Alex Taylor and Siân Lindley / Kim Sauvé and Steven Houben / Nik Hafermaas, Dan Goods and Jamie Barlow / Jason Alexander, Faisal Taher, John Hardy and John Vidler / Mathieu Le Goc, Charles Perin, Sean Follmer, Jean-Daniel Fekete and Pierre Dragicevic / Dietmar Offenhuber / Liina Klauss, Moritz Sefaner, and Skye Morét / Robert Cercós / Dietmar Offenhuber. <br/>
 see the collection of essays in:  Samuel Huron, Till Nagel, Lora Oehlberg, and Wesley Willett. <strong><a href="https://makingwithdata.org" class="urlextern" title="https://makingwithdata.org" rel="ugc nofollow">Making with Data: Physical Design and Craft in a Data-Driven World.</a></strong> AK Peters: CRC Press, (2023).</div>
</li>
</ul>

<p>
<strong> 2022 </strong>
</p>
<ul>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Gwilt, Ian. <br/>
 See the collection of essays in <strong><a href="https://www.bloomsbury.com/us/making-data-9781350133235/" class="urlextern" title="https://www.bloomsbury.com/us/making-data-9781350133235/" rel="ugc nofollow">Making Data: Materializing Digital Information.</a></strong> <br/>
 Bloomsbury Publishing, 2022.</div>
</li>
</ul>

<p>
<strong> 2021 </strong>
</p>
<ul>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Pierre Dragicevic, Yvonne Jansen and Andrew Vande Moere <br/>
 <strong><a href="https://hal.inria.fr/hal-02113248/document" class="urlextern" title="https://hal.inria.fr/hal-02113248/document" rel="ugc nofollow">Data Physicalization</a></strong> <br/>
In Springer Handbook of Human Computer Interaction, Springer, ISBN 978-3-319-73228-2. In press.</div>
</li>
</ul>

<p>
<strong> 2015 </strong>
</p>
<ul>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Dietmar Offenhuber and Orkan Telhan. <br/>
<strong><a href="http://offenhuber.net/docs/offenhuber_telhan.pdf" class="urlextern" title="http://offenhuber.net/docs/offenhuber_telhan.pdf" rel="ugc nofollow">Indexical Visualization—the Data-Less Information Display.</a></strong> <br/>
In Ubiquitous Computing, Complexity and Culture, edited by Ulrik Ekman, Jay David Bolter, Lily Diaz, Morten Søndergaard, and Maria Engberg, 288–303. New York: Routledge.</div>
</li>
</ul>

<p>
<strong> 2013 </strong>
</p>
<ul>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Ian Gwilt. <br/>
<strong>Data-Objects: sharing the attributes and properties of digital and material culture to creatively interpret complex information.</strong> <br/>
In: Digital Media and Technologies for Virtual Artistic Spaces. US, IGI Global, pp. 14-26, 2013.</div>
</li>
</ul>

<p>
<strong> 2012 </strong>
</p>
<ul>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> A. Plohman, M. Sipos (eds.) <br/>
<strong><a href="http://issuu.com/kitchenbudapest/docs/beyond_data" class="urlextern" title="http://issuu.com/kitchenbudapest/docs/beyond_data" rel="ugc nofollow">Beyond Data.</a></strong> <br/>
Baltan Laboratories and Kitchen Budapest 2012</div>
</li>
</ul>

<p>
<strong> 2011 </strong>
</p>
<ul>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Wolf-Dieter Rase. <br/>
 <strong><a href="http://www.wdrase.de/CreatingPhysical3DMapsRP.pdf" class="urlextern" title="http://www.wdrase.de/CreatingPhysical3DMapsRP.pdf" rel="ugc nofollow">Creating Physical 3D Maps Using Rapid Prototyping Techniques.</a></strong> <br/>
True-3D in Cartography. Springer.</div>
</li>
</ul>

</div>
<!-- EDIT{&quot;target&quot;:&quot;section&quot;,&quot;name&quot;:&quot;Book chapters&quot;,&quot;hid&quot;:&quot;book_chapters&quot;,&quot;codeblockOffset&quot;:0,&quot;secid&quot;:5,&quot;range&quot;:&quot;41112-43615&quot;} -->
<h1 class="sectionedit6" id="extended_abstracts">Extended abstracts</h1>
<div class="level1">

<p>
<strong>2023</strong>
</p>
<ul>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Lora Oehlberg, Wesley Willett, Samuel Huron, Till Nagel, Alice Thudt, Ekene Ijeoma, Dietmar Offenhuber, and Eva Hornecker.  <br/>
 <strong><a href="https://doi.org/10.1145/3544549.3583748" class="urlextern" title="https://doi.org/10.1145/3544549.3583748" rel="ugc nofollow">Making with Data (and Beyond).</a></strong> (Panel) <br/>
 In Extended Abstracts of the 2023 CHI Conference on Human Factors in Computing Systems (CHI EA &#039;23). Association for Computing Machinery, New York, NY, USA, Article 526, 1–5. </div>
</li>
</ul>
<ul>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Matthew L. Lee-Smith, Jesse Josua Benjamin, Audrey Desjardins, Mathias Funk, William Odom, Doenja Oogjes, Young-Woo Park, James Pierce, Pedro Sanches, and Vasiliki Tsaknaki.  <br/>
 <strong><a href="https://doi.org/10.1145/3544549.3573817" class="urlextern" title="https://doi.org/10.1145/3544549.3573817" rel="ugc nofollow">Data as a Material for Design: Alternative Narratives, Divergent Pathways, and Future Directions.</a></strong> (workshop) <br/>
 In Extended Abstracts of the 2023 CHI Conference on Human Factors in Computing Systems (CHI EA &#039;23). Association for Computing Machinery, New York, NY, USA, Article 342, 1–5. </div>
</li>
</ul>
<ul>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Kim Sauvé, Hans Brombacher, Rosa Van Koningsbruggen, Annemiek Veldhuis, Steven Houben, and Jason Alexander.  <br/>
 <strong><a href="https://doi.org/10.1145/3544549.3573824" class="urlextern" title="https://doi.org/10.1145/3544549.3573824" rel="ugc nofollow">Physicalization from Theory to Practice: Exploring Physicalization Design across Domains. </a></strong> (workshop) <br/>
 In Extended Abstracts of the 2023 CHI Conference on Human Factors in Computing Systems (CHI EA &#039;23). Association for Computing Machinery, New York, NY, USA, Article 360, 1–7. </div>
</li>
</ul>

<p>
<strong>2022</strong>
</p>
<ul>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Rick van Loenhout, Champika Ranasinghe, Auriol Degbelo, and Nacir Bouali.  <br/>
 <strong><a href="https://doi.org/10.1145/3491101.3519638" class="urlextern" title="https://doi.org/10.1145/3491101.3519638" rel="ugc nofollow">Physicalizing Sustainable Development Goals Data: An Example with SDG 7 (Affordable and Clean Energy).</a></strong> <br/>
 In Extended Abstracts of the 2022 CHI Conference on Human Factors in Computing Systems (CHI EA &#039;22). Association for Computing Machinery, New York, NY, USA, Article 346, 1–7. <br/>
<a href="https://doi.org/10.1145/3491101.3519638" class="urlextern" title="https://doi.org/10.1145/3491101.3519638" rel="ugc nofollow">https://doi.org/10.1145/3491101.3519638</a></div>
</li>
</ul>

<p>
<strong>2021</strong>
</p>
<ul>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Dorsey B. Kaufmann, Nima Hamidi, Kunal Palawat, and Monica Ramirez-Andreotta. <br/>
 <strong><a href="https://doi.org/10.1145/3450741.3464947" class="urlextern" title="https://doi.org/10.1145/3450741.3464947" rel="ugc nofollow">Ripple Effect: Communicating Water Quality Data through Sonic Vibrations.</a></strong> <br/>
 In Creativity and Cognition (C&amp;C &#039;21).</div>
</li>
</ul>
<ul>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Maxime Daniel and Guillaume Rivière.: <strong><a href="https://dl.acm.org/doi/10.1145/3430524.3442452" class="urlextern" title="https://dl.acm.org/doi/10.1145/3430524.3442452" rel="ugc nofollow">Exploring Axisymmetric Shape-Change’s Purposes and Allure for Ambient Display: 16 Potential Use Cases and a Two-Month Preliminary Study on Daily Notifications.</a></strong> : (WiP) Proc.  Tangible, Embedded, and Embodied Interaction (TEI &#039;21). ACM NY</div>
</li>
</ul>
<ul>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> He Ren and Eva Hornecker. <strong><a href="https://dl.acm.org/doi/10.1145/3430524.3442446" class="urlextern" title="https://dl.acm.org/doi/10.1145/3430524.3442446" rel="ugc nofollow"> Comparing Understanding and Memorization in Physicalization and VR Visualization.</a></strong> (WiP) Proc.  Tangible, Embedded, and Embodied Interaction (TEI &#039;21). ACM NY</div>
</li>
</ul>

<p>
<strong>2020</strong>
</p>
<ul>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Hannes Waldschütz and Eva Hornecker. <strong><a href="https://www.uni-weimar.de/fileadmin/user/fak/medien/professuren/Human-Computer_Interaction/Downloads/Papers_2020/dispw1110-waldschutzA.pdf" class="urlextern" title="https://www.uni-weimar.de/fileadmin/user/fak/medien/professuren/Human-Computer_Interaction/Downloads/Papers_2020/dispw1110-waldschutzA.pdf" rel="ugc nofollow">The Importance of Data Curation for Data Physicalization. </a></strong> (DIS’ 20 <a href="https://dl.acm.org/doi/10.1145/3393914.3395892" class="urlextern" title="https://dl.acm.org/doi/10.1145/3393914.3395892" rel="ugc nofollow">Companion</a>), 293–297. Provocations track.</div>
</li>
</ul>
<ul>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Hannes Waldschütz, Eva Hornecker, Leoni Fischer, Pauline Temme, Anas Alnayef, Sujay Shalawadi, He Ren.  <br/>
 <strong><a href="https://www.uni-weimar.de/fileadmin/user/fak/medien/professuren/Human-Computer_Interaction/Downloads/Papers_2020/dispd1030-waldschutzA.pdf" class="urlextern" title="https://www.uni-weimar.de/fileadmin/user/fak/medien/professuren/Human-Computer_Interaction/Downloads/Papers_2020/dispd1030-waldschutzA.pdf" rel="ugc nofollow">Drum Roll: A Data Physicalization of Real-Time Radiation Sensor Readings.</a></strong>  (DIS’ 20 <a href="https://dl.acm.org/doi/10.1145/3393914.3395848" class="urlextern" title="https://dl.acm.org/doi/10.1145/3393914.3395848" rel="ugc nofollow">Companion</a>), 477–479. Performance and Design track.</div>
</li>
</ul>

<p>
<strong> 2019 </strong>
</p>
<ul>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Wannamaker, Kendra, Wesley J. Willett, Lora A. Oehlberg, and Sheelagh Carpendale.  <br/>
 <strong><a href="http://dx.doi.org/10.11575/PRISM/36403" class="urlextern" title="http://dx.doi.org/10.11575/PRISM/36403" rel="ugc nofollow">Data embroidery: Exploring alternative mediums for personal physicalization.</a></strong> (poster)</div>
</li>
</ul>

<p>
<strong> 2017 </strong>
</p>
<ul>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Pauline Gourlet and Thierry Dassé. <br/>
 <strong><a href="https://www.researchgate.net/publication/317417090_Cairn_A_Tangible_Apparatus_for_Situated_Data_Collection_Visualization_and_Analysis" class="urlextern" title="https://www.researchgate.net/publication/317417090_Cairn_A_Tangible_Apparatus_for_Situated_Data_Collection_Visualization_and_Analysis" rel="ugc nofollow">Cairn: A Tangible Apparatus for Situated Data Collection, Visualization and Analysis.</a></strong> <br/>
 DIS 2017 - Proceedings of the 2017 Conference on Designing Interactive Systems (pictorial).</div>
</li>
</ul>
<ul>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Samuel Huron, Pauline Gourlet, Uta Hinrichs, Trevor Hogan, and Yvonne Jansen. <br/>
 <strong><a href="http://hal.upmc.fr/hal-01538595/document" class="urlextern" title="http://hal.upmc.fr/hal-01538595/document" rel="ugc nofollow">Let’s Get Physical: Promoting Data Physicalization in Workshop Formats.</a></strong> <br/>
 DIS 2017 - Proceedings of the 2017 Conference on Designing Interactive Systems (pictorial).</div>
</li>
</ul>
<ul>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Dan Lockton, Delanie Ricketts, Shruti Aditya Chowdhury and Chang Hee Lee. <br/>
 <strong><a href="http://imaginari.es/publications/Lockton_Ricketts_Chowdhury_Lee_2017_Exploring_Qualitative_Displays_and_Interfaces.pdf" class="urlextern" title="http://imaginari.es/publications/Lockton_Ricketts_Chowdhury_Lee_2017_Exploring_Qualitative_Displays_and_Interfaces.pdf" rel="ugc nofollow">Exploring Qualitative Displays and Interfaces.</a></strong> <br/>
 CHI 2017 - Extended Abstracts on Human Factors in Computing Systems (late-breaking work).</div>
</li>
</ul>

<p>
<strong> 2016 </strong>
</p>
<ul>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Yun Wang, Xiaojuan Ma, Qiong Luo, and Huamin Qu. <br/>
 <strong><a href="http://www.cse.ust.hk/~ywangch/edibilization.pdf" class="urlextern" title="http://www.cse.ust.hk/~ywangch/edibilization.pdf" rel="ugc nofollow">Data Edibilization: Representing Data with Food.</a></strong> <a href="https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ivfA34fY1rk Talk" class="urlextern" title="https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ivfA34fY1rk Talk" rel="ugc nofollow">https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ivfA34fY1rk Talk</a> <br/>
 CHI 2016 - Extended Abstracts on Human Factors in Computing Systems (alt.chi), pp. 409-422. ACM, 2016.</div>
</li>
</ul>

<p>
<strong> 2015 </strong>
</p>
<ul>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Stephen Barrass. <br/>
<strong><a href="https://smartech.gatech.edu/bitstream/handle/1853/54173/ICAD%20Proceedings%202015%20Extended%20Abstract%20-%20Barass.pdf" class="urlextern" title="https://smartech.gatech.edu/bitstream/handle/1853/54173/ICAD%20Proceedings%202015%20Extended%20Abstract%20-%20Barass.pdf" rel="ugc nofollow">Diagnostic singing bowls</a></strong> <br/>
ICAD 2015 - Proceedings of the 21st International Conference on Auditory Display.</div>
</li>
</ul>
<ul>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Chang Long Zhu, Harshit Agrawal, and Pattie Maes. <br/>
<strong><a href="http://www.infomus.org/Events/proceedings/ACII2015/papers/Main_Conference/M2_Poster/Poster_Teaser_1/ACII2015_submission_54.pdf" class="urlextern" title="http://www.infomus.org/Events/proceedings/ACII2015/papers/Main_Conference/M2_Poster/Poster_Teaser_1/ACII2015_submission_54.pdf" rel="ugc nofollow">Data-objects: Re-designing everyday objects as tactile affective interfaces</a></strong> <br/>
ACII 2015 - International Conference on Affective Computing and Intelligent Interaction.</div>
</li>
</ul>
<ul>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Michele Hu. <br/>
<strong>Exploring New Paradigms for Accessible 3D Printed Graphs.</strong> <br/>
ASSETS 2015 - Proceedings of the 17th International ACM SIGACCESS Conference on Computers &amp; Accessibility. ACM, 2015.</div>
</li>
</ul>
<ul>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Tim Regan, David Sweeney, John Helmes, Vasilis Vlachokyriakos, Siân Lindey, and Alex S. Taylor. <br/>
<strong><a href="https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/research/wp-content/uploads/2016/02/designing-engaging-data.pdf" class="urlextern" title="https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/research/wp-content/uploads/2016/02/designing-engaging-data.pdf" rel="ugc nofollow">Designing Engaging Data in Communities</a>.</strong> <br/>
CHI 2015 - Proceedings of the 33rd Annual ACM Conference Extended Abstracts on Human Factors in Computing Systems.</div>
</li>
</ul>
<ul>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Daniel Buzzo and Nicolo Merendino. <br/>
<strong><a href="https://www.academia.edu/10727947/Not_all_Days_are_Equal_investigating_the_meaning_in_the_digital_calendar" class="urlextern" title="https://www.academia.edu/10727947/Not_all_Days_are_Equal_investigating_the_meaning_in_the_digital_calendar" rel="ugc nofollow">Not all Days are Equal: Investigating the Meaning in the Digital Calendar</a>.</strong> <br/>
CHI 2015 - Proceedings of the 33rd Annual ACM Conference Extended Abstracts on Human Factors in Computing Systems.</div>
</li>
</ul>
<ul>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Tamara Flemisch, Fatemeh Rajabiyazdi, Mona Hosseinkhani Loorak, Sheelagh Carpendale. <br/>
<strong><a href="http://citeseerx.ist.psu.edu/viewdoc/download?doi=10.1.1.712.4257&amp;rep=rep1&amp;type=pdf" class="urlextern" title="http://citeseerx.ist.psu.edu/viewdoc/download?doi=10.1.1.712.4257&amp;rep=rep1&amp;type=pdf" rel="ugc nofollow">NeckLan: Language as Jewellery</a></strong>. <br/>
VIS 2015 Posters.</div>
</li>
</ul>

<p>
<strong> 2014 </strong>
</p>
<ul>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Ken Giang, and Mathias Funk. <br/>
 <strong><a href="https://otik.uk.zcu.cz/bitstream/handle/11025/11941/Giang.pdf?sequence=1" class="urlextern" title="https://otik.uk.zcu.cz/bitstream/handle/11025/11941/Giang.pdf?sequence=1" rel="ugc nofollow">Connect-S: A Physical Visualization Through Tangible Interaction.</a></strong> <br/>
 WSCG 2014 - Poster proceedings of WSCG 2014 Conference on Computer Graphics, Visualization and Computer Vision</div>
</li>
</ul>
<ul>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Simon Stusak, and Markus Teufel. <br/>
 <strong><a href="http://www.medien.ifi.lmu.de/pubdb/publications/pub/stusak2014suiPoster/stusak2014suiPoster.pdf" class="urlextern" title="http://www.medien.ifi.lmu.de/pubdb/publications/pub/stusak2014suiPoster/stusak2014suiPoster.pdf" rel="ugc nofollow">Projection augmented physical visualizations.</a></strong> <br/>
 In Proceedings of the 2nd ACM symposium on Spatial user interaction, pp. 145-145. ACM, 2014.</div>
</li>
</ul>
<ul>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Simon Stusak, and Ayfer Aslan. <br/>
 <strong><a href="https://www.medien.ifi.lmu.de/pubdb/publications/pub/stusak2014chiPoster/stusak2014chiPoster.pdf" class="urlextern" title="https://www.medien.ifi.lmu.de/pubdb/publications/pub/stusak2014chiPoster/stusak2014chiPoster.pdf" rel="ugc nofollow">Beyond physical bar charts: an exploration of designing physical visualizations.</a></strong> <br/>
 CHI 2014 - Extended Abstracts on Human Factors in Computing Systems, pp. 1381-1386. ACM, 2014.</div>
</li>
</ul>
<ul>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Steve James Szigeti, Anne Stevens, Robert Tu, Ana Jofre, Alex Gebhardt, Fanny Chevalier, Jonathan Lee, and Sara L. Diamond. <br/>
 <strong><a href="https://hal.inria.fr/docs/01/00/39/48/PDF/p1813-szigeti.pdf" class="urlextern" title="https://hal.inria.fr/docs/01/00/39/48/PDF/p1813-szigeti.pdf" rel="ugc nofollow">Output to input: concepts for physical data representations and tactile user interfaces.</a></strong> <br/>
 CHI 2014 - Extended Abstracts on Human Factors in Computing Systems, pp. 1813-1818. ACM, 2014.</div>
</li>
</ul>
<ul>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Saiganesh Swaminathan, Conglei Shi, Yvonne Jansen, Pierre Dragicevic, Lora Oehlberg, and Jean-Daniel Fekete. <br/>
 <strong><a href="http://www.saiganesh.net/assets/pdfs/Interactivity-CHI2014.pdf" class="urlextern" title="http://www.saiganesh.net/assets/pdfs/Interactivity-CHI2014.pdf" rel="ugc nofollow">Creating physical visualizations with makervis</a>.</strong> <br/>
 CHI 2014 - Extended Abstracts on Human Factors in Computing Systems (pp. 543-546). ACM.</div>
</li>
</ul>

<p>
<strong> 2013 </strong>
</p>
<ul>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Simon Stusak, Aurélien Tabard, and Andreas Butz. <br/>
 <strong><a href="https://www.researchgate.net/profile/Simon_Stusak/publication/260699515_Can_Physical_Visualizations_Support_Analytical_Tasks/links/544111690cf2e6f0c0f56734.pdf" class="urlextern" title="https://www.researchgate.net/profile/Simon_Stusak/publication/260699515_Can_Physical_Visualizations_Support_Analytical_Tasks/links/544111690cf2e6f0c0f56734.pdf" rel="ugc nofollow">Can physical visualizations support analytical tasks?</a></strong> <br/>
 VIS 2013 - Posters of IEEE InfoVis.</div>
</li>
</ul>

</div>
<!-- EDIT{&quot;target&quot;:&quot;section&quot;,&quot;name&quot;:&quot;Extended abstracts&quot;,&quot;hid&quot;:&quot;extended_abstracts&quot;,&quot;codeblockOffset&quot;:0,&quot;secid&quot;:6,&quot;range&quot;:&quot;43616-52591&quot;} -->
<h1 class="sectionedit7" id="workshop_contributions">Workshop contributions</h1>
<div class="level1">

<p>
<strong> 2023 </strong>
</p>
<ul>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Kim Sauvé, Hans Brombacher, Rosa van Koningsbruggen, Annemiek Veldhuis, Steven Houben, and Jason Alexander. <br/>
 <strong><a href="http://dataphys.org/workshops/chi23/wp-content/uploads/sites/8/2022/12/chiea23-34_authorversion.pdf" class="urlextern" title="http://dataphys.org/workshops/chi23/wp-content/uploads/sites/8/2022/12/chiea23-34_authorversion.pdf" rel="ugc nofollow">Physicalization from Theory to Practice: Exploring Physicalization Design across Domains</a>. <br/>
 CHI2023. Extended Abstracts of the 2023 CHI Conference on Human Factors in Computing Systems. 


</strong> 2018 <strong>
  * Beat Signer, Payam Ebrahimi, Timothy J. Curtin and Ahmed K.A. Abdullah. <br/>
 </strong><a href="http://beatsigner.com/publications/signer_DataPhys2018.pdf" class="urlextern" title="http://beatsigner.com/publications/signer_DataPhys2018.pdf" rel="ugc nofollow">Towards a Framework for Dynamic Data Physicalisation.</a><strong>&#039; <br/>
 Proceedings of the International Workshop &#039;Toward a Design Language for Data Physicalization&#039; at VIS 2018, Berlin, Germany, October 2018.


  * Tiffany Wun, Lora Oehlberg, and Sheelagh Carpendale. <br/>
 </strong>Making-With-Data: Supporting DIY Data Physicalizations.<strong> <br/>
  CHI 2018 workshop: Maker Movements, Do-It-Yourself Cultures and Participatory Design: Implications for HCI Research.


</strong> 2017 <strong>


  * Rahul Bhargava and Catherine D&#039;Ignazio. <br/>
 </strong><a href="http://dataphys.org/workshops/dis17/wp-content/uploads/sites/5/2017/06/Data_Phys_2017_Workshop-rev2.pdf" class="urlextern" title="http://dataphys.org/workshops/dis17/wp-content/uploads/sites/5/2017/06/Data_Phys_2017_Workshop-rev2.pdf" rel="ugc nofollow">Data Sculptures as a Playful and Low-Tech Introduction to Working with Data.</a><strong>&#039; <br/>
 Extended Abstract for Workshop: Pedagogy &amp; Physicalization: Designing Learning Activities around Physical Data Representations at Designing Interactive Systems Conference (DIS ’17). ACM, Edinburgh, United Kingdom.


  * Ian Gwilt and Nick Dulake. <br/>
</strong><a href="http://dataphys.org/workshops/dis17/wp-content/uploads/sites/5/2017/06/data_workshop_igwilt_AW.pdf" class="urlextern" title="http://dataphys.org/workshops/dis17/wp-content/uploads/sites/5/2017/06/data_workshop_igwilt_AW.pdf" rel="ugc nofollow">Understanding the needs and desires of service users in the design and creation of meaningful physical data representations.</a><strong> <br/>
Extended Abstract for Workshop: Pedagogy &amp; Physicalization: Designing Learning Activities around Physical Data Representations at Designing Interactive Systems Conference (DIS ’17). ACM, Edinburgh, United Kingdom.


  * Sarah Hayes, Trevor Hogan and Kieran Delaney. <br/>
</strong><a href="http://dataphys.org/workshops/dis17/wp-content/uploads/sites/5/2017/06/DataPhysWS_PositionPaper_vF_CR.pdf" class="urlextern" title="http://dataphys.org/workshops/dis17/wp-content/uploads/sites/5/2017/06/DataPhysWS_PositionPaper_vF_CR.pdf" rel="ugc nofollow">Exploring the role Physicalizations can play in STEM Learning.</a><strong>&#039; <br/>
Extended Abstract for Workshop: Pedagogy &amp; Physicalization: Designing Learning Activities around Physical Data Representations at Designing Interactive Systems Conference (DIS ’17). ACM, Edinburgh, United Kingdom.


  * Stéphanie Fleck, Alexis Olry, David Bertolo, Christian Bastien, Robin Vivian and Martin Hachet. <br/>
</strong><a href="http://dataphys.org/workshops/dis17/wp-content/uploads/sites/5/2017/06/DIS-17-_-Augmented-and-Tangible-interfaces_A-Tool-for-physicalization-VF.pdf" class="urlextern" title="http://dataphys.org/workshops/dis17/wp-content/uploads/sites/5/2017/06/DIS-17-_-Augmented-and-Tangible-interfaces_A-Tool-for-physicalization-VF.pdf" rel="ugc nofollow">Augmented and Tangible Environments: A Tool for Physicalization of Contents by Children in School Context?</a><strong> <br/>
Extended Abstract for Workshop: Pedagogy &amp; Physicalization: Designing Learning Activities around Physical Data Representations at Designing Interactive Systems Conference (DIS ’17). ACM, Edinburgh, United Kingdom.


  * Jeeeun Kim, Abigale Stangl and Tom Yeh. <br/>
</strong><a href="http://dataphys.org/workshops/dis17/wp-content/uploads/sites/5/2017/06/dis2017-workshop_JK.pdf" class="urlextern" title="http://dataphys.org/workshops/dis17/wp-content/uploads/sites/5/2017/06/dis2017-workshop_JK.pdf" rel="ugc nofollow">Learning Underlying Principles of Physicalization by Tangible, Embodied, and Iterative Fabrication.</a><strong> <br/>
Extended Abstract for Workshop: Pedagogy &amp; Physicalization: Designing Learning Activities around Physical Data Representations at Designing Interactive Systems Conference (DIS ’17). ACM, Edinburgh, United Kingdom.


  * Jörn Hurtienne and Daniel Reinhardt. <br/>
</strong><a href="http://dataphys.org/workshops/dis17/wp-content/uploads/sites/5/2017/06/DISS2017_DataPhys_Position_final_170528.pdf" class="urlextern" title="http://dataphys.org/workshops/dis17/wp-content/uploads/sites/5/2017/06/DISS2017_DataPhys_Position_final_170528.pdf" rel="ugc nofollow">Teaching Data Physicalisation to HCI Students – A Case Report.</a><strong> <br/>
Extended Abstract for Workshop: Pedagogy &amp; Physicalization: Designing Learning Activities around Physical Data Representations at Designing Interactive Systems Conference (DIS ’17). ACM, Edinburgh, United Kingdom.


  * Lora Oehlberg. <br/>
</strong><a href="http://dataphys.org/workshops/dis17/wp-content/uploads/sites/5/2017/06/HybridFabricationofPhysicalization-DIS2016Workshop.pdf" class="urlextern" title="http://dataphys.org/workshops/dis17/wp-content/uploads/sites/5/2017/06/HybridFabricationofPhysicalization-DIS2016Workshop.pdf" rel="ugc nofollow">Hybrid Fabrication of Physicalizations.</a><strong> <br/>
Extended Abstract for Workshop: Pedagogy &amp; Physicalization: Designing Learning Activities around Physical Data Representations at Designing Interactive Systems Conference (DIS ’17). ACM, Edinburgh, United Kingdom.


  * Aubrey Lawson and Eileen Kraemer. <br/>
</strong><a href="http://dataphys.org/workshops/dis17/wp-content/uploads/sites/5/2017/06/Lawson_Kraemer_abstract.pdf" class="urlextern" title="http://dataphys.org/workshops/dis17/wp-content/uploads/sites/5/2017/06/Lawson_Kraemer_abstract.pdf" rel="ugc nofollow">Pedagogy of CS Unplugged: Lessons from Outreach and Education Activities in Computer Science.</a><strong> <br/>
Extended Abstract for Workshop: Pedagogy &amp; Physicalization: Designing Learning Activities around Physical Data Representations at Designing Interactive Systems Conference (DIS ’17). ACM, Edinburgh, United Kingdom.


  * Fearn Bishop and Uta Hinrichs. <br/>
</strong><a href="http://dataphys.org/workshops/dis17/wp-content/uploads/sites/5/2017/06/TokenWorkshopCamera.pdf" class="urlextern" title="http://dataphys.org/workshops/dis17/wp-content/uploads/sites/5/2017/06/TokenWorkshopCamera.pdf" rel="ugc nofollow">Challenges of Running Constructive Visualization Studies with Children.</a><strong> <br/>
Extended Abstract for Workshop: Pedagogy &amp; Physicalization: Designing Learning Activities around Physical Data Representations at Designing Interactive Systems Conference (DIS ’17). ACM, Edinburgh, United Kingdom.


  * Alice Thudt, Uta Hinrichs, and Sheelagh Carpendale. <br/>
</strong><a href="https://research-repository.st-andrews.ac.uk/bitstream/handle/10023/10910/Thudt_DataCraft_CHI2017.pdf?sequence=1&amp;isAllowed=y" class="urlextern" title="https://research-repository.st-andrews.ac.uk/bitstream/handle/10023/10910/Thudt_DataCraft_CHI2017.pdf?sequence=1&amp;isAllowed=y" rel="ugc nofollow">Data craft: integrating data into daily practices and shared reflections</a><strong> <br/>
Workshop &#039;Quantified Data &amp; Social Relationships&#039; at CHI 2017, Denver, United States.


</strong> 2016 <strong>


  * Wesley Willett and Samuel Huron. <br/>
</strong><a href="http://vgl.cs.usfca.edu/pdvw/2016/abstracts/Willett.pdf" class="urlextern" title="http://vgl.cs.usfca.edu/pdvw/2016/abstracts/Willett.pdf" rel="ugc nofollow">A Constructive Classroom Exercise for Teaching InfoVis</a><strong> <br/>
Workshop &#039;Innovations in the Pedagogy of Data Visualization&#039; at VIS 2016.


  * Xin Chen, Jessica Zeitz Self, Leanna House, and Chris North <br/>
</strong><a href="https://infovis.cs.vt.edu/sites/default/files/be_the_data_IA_final.pdf" class="urlextern" title="https://infovis.cs.vt.edu/sites/default/files/be_the_data_IA_final.pdf" rel="ugc nofollow">Be the Data: A New Approach for Immersive Analytics</a><strong> <br/>
Workshop on Immersive Analytics at IEEE Virtual Reality 2016.


</strong> 2015 <strong>


  * See the 15 submissions at the CHI 2015 workshop </strong><a href="http://jasonalexander.kiwi/workshops/physicaldata2015/papers.html" class="urlextern" title="http://jasonalexander.kiwi/workshops/physicaldata2015/papers.html" rel="ugc nofollow">Exploring the Challenges of Making Data Physical</a><strong>


</strong> 2014 <strong>


  * Lisa Koeman. <br/>
</strong><a href="http://lisakoeman.nl/publications/DIS_2014_-_Workshop_Personal_Visualisation.pdf" class="urlextern" title="http://lisakoeman.nl/publications/DIS_2014_-_Workshop_Personal_Visualisation.pdf" rel="ugc nofollow">A Personal Visualisation Future: Domestic Data Sculptures</a><strong> <br/>
Workshop &#039;A Personal Perspective on Visualization and Visual Analytics&#039; at DIS 2014 - Conference on Designing interactive systems. ACM, 2014.


  * Jennifer Payne, Sheelagh Carpendale, Tony Tang. <br/>
</strong><a href="http://hcitang.org/papers/2014-dis2014workshop-physical-visualization.pdf" class="urlextern" title="http://hcitang.org/papers/2014-dis2014workshop-physical-visualization.pdf" rel="ugc nofollow">Physical Visualization and Personal Visual Analytics</a><strong> <br/>
Workshop &#039;A Personal Perspective on Visualization and Visual Analytics&#039; at DIS 2014 - Conference on Designing interactive systems. ACM, 2014.


====== Technical reports ======


</strong>2017<strong>


  *  Beat Signer and Timothy J. Curtin. <br/>
</strong><a href="https://arxiv.org/pdf/1703.08288.pdf" class="urlextern" title="https://arxiv.org/pdf/1703.08288.pdf" rel="ugc nofollow">Tangible Holograms: Towards Mobile Physical Augmentation of Virtual Objects.</a>** <br/>
 Technical Report WISE Lab, WISE-2017-01, March 2017.</div>
</li>
</ul>

</div>
<!-- EDIT{&quot;target&quot;:&quot;section&quot;,&quot;name&quot;:&quot;Workshop contributions&quot;,&quot;hid&quot;:&quot;workshop_contributions&quot;,&quot;codeblockOffset&quot;:0,&quot;secid&quot;:7,&quot;range&quot;:&quot;52592-&quot;} -->