
<h1 class="sectionedit1" id="teaching">Teaching</h1>
<div class="level1">

<p>
This page collects resources for teaching data physicalization. If you developed teaching material and want to list them here, please send the link and a short description to info@dataphys.org or, if you plan to contribute on a more regular basis to this wiki, just ask us for an account using the same address.
</p>

</div>
<!-- EDIT{&quot;target&quot;:&quot;section&quot;,&quot;name&quot;:&quot;Teaching&quot;,&quot;hid&quot;:&quot;teaching&quot;,&quot;codeblockOffset&quot;:0,&quot;secid&quot;:1,&quot;range&quot;:&quot;1-337&quot;} -->
<h1 class="sectionedit2" id="teaching_material">Teaching Material</h1>
<div class="level1">

<p>
Material which can be reused by others for their own teaching. All resources should indicate a license for reuse and give credit to those who created the material.
</p>
<ul>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> 2021 - <a href="http://web.uvic.ca/~cperin/teaching/2021/infovis/documents/personal-vis.html" class="urlextern" title="http://web.uvic.ca/~cperin/teaching/2021/infovis/documents/personal-vis.html" rel="ugc nofollow">Assignment on //Personal Data Physicalization//</a> covering instructions for how to collect data, design constraints, and deliverables. This is part of a course given by Charles Perin at University of Victoria.</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> 2020 - <a href="https://pages.cpsc.ucalgary.ca/~lora.oehlberg/tui-w20/#assignment3" class="urlextern" title="https://pages.cpsc.ucalgary.ca/~lora.oehlberg/tui-w20/#assignment3" rel="ugc nofollow">A data physicalization assignment</a> (assignment 3) in the context of the course <em>Tangible &amp; Physical HCI</em> given by Lora Oehlberg at the University of Calgary.</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> 2016 – <a href="http://dataphys.org/workshops/drs16/wp-content/uploads/sites/4/2016/07/cards_final.pdf" class="urlextern" title="http://dataphys.org/workshops/drs16/wp-content/uploads/sites/4/2016/07/cards_final.pdf" rel="ugc nofollow">A set of cards providing constraints</a> for a data physicalization exercise. CC-BY-4.0 Graphic design: Pauline Gourlet. Illustration for scenario cards: Samuel Huron. Concept: Yvonne Jansen, Pauline Gourlet, Samuel Huron, Uta Hinrichs, Trevor Hogan. See the <a href="http://dataphys.org/workshops/drs16" class="urlextern" title="http://dataphys.org/workshops/drs16" rel="ugc nofollow">related workshop report</a> for how to use them.</div>
</li>
</ul>

</div>
<!-- EDIT{&quot;target&quot;:&quot;section&quot;,&quot;name&quot;:&quot;Teaching Material&quot;,&quot;hid&quot;:&quot;teaching_material&quot;,&quot;codeblockOffset&quot;:0,&quot;secid&quot;:2,&quot;range&quot;:&quot;338-1519&quot;} -->
<h1 class="sectionedit3" id="teaching_reports">Teaching Reports</h1>
<div class="level1">

<p>
A list of any form of report illustrating how a course or workshop was organized or what its outcomes are.
</p>
<ul>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> 2016 – <a href="/dataphys-dokuwiki/in" class="wikilink2" title="in" rel="nofollow" data-wiki-id="in">French</a> [<a href="https://strabic.fr/Et-si-nous-fossilisions-nos-donnees" class="urlextern" title="https://strabic.fr/Et-si-nous-fossilisions-nos-donnees" rel="ugc nofollow">https://strabic.fr/Et-si-nous-fossilisions-nos-donnees</a> Report of a 3-day workshop] from March 29 to 31, 2016 at Stereolux and Fabmake in Nantes, France. It was organized by Stéphane Buellet (together with Julia Puyo) invited by Boris Letessier.</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> 2016 – <a href="http://dataphys.org/workshops/drs16/" class="urlextern" title="http://dataphys.org/workshops/drs16/" rel="ugc nofollow">A workshop report from the 2016 DRS conference</a> which used a protocol that could also be applied in a class room. The workshop was run by Yvonne Jansen, Pauline Gourlet, Samuel Huron, Uta Hinrichs, Trevor Hogan.</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> 2016 – Not a real report but <a href="https://www.flickr.com/photos/cuivienna/sets/72157667253863706" class="urlextern" title="https://www.flickr.com/photos/cuivienna/sets/72157667253863706" rel="ugc nofollow">photos from the hands-on part of a 3h course</a> given by Yvonne Jansen for students of the <em>Creative Technology</em> master at TU Twente in 2016.</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> 2014-2017 – <a href="https://www.datavizexperiments.org/" class="urlextern" title="https://www.datavizexperiments.org/" rel="ugc nofollow">Data Viz Experiments</a> summarizing the outcomes of yearly projects by the Fine Arts Data Visualization Lab at the University of Lethbridge led by Leanne Elias and Denton Fredrickson.</div>
</li>
</ul>

</div>
<!-- EDIT{&quot;target&quot;:&quot;section&quot;,&quot;name&quot;:&quot;Teaching Reports&quot;,&quot;hid&quot;:&quot;teaching_reports&quot;,&quot;codeblockOffset&quot;:0,&quot;secid&quot;:3,&quot;range&quot;:&quot;1520-2679&quot;} -->
<h1 class="sectionedit4" id="teaching_bibliography">Teaching Bibliography</h1>
<div class="level1">

<p>
Readings that can be useful for preparing lectures and activities around data physicalization, including states of the art and papers on teaching data physicalization.
</p>
<ul>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> 2021 – Pierre Dragicevic, Yvonne Jansen, Andrew Vande Moere. <a href="https://hal.inria.fr/hal-02113248v2/document" class="urlextern" title="https://hal.inria.fr/hal-02113248v2/document" rel="ugc nofollow">Data Physicalization</a>. Jean Vanderdonckt, Ed. Springer Handbook of Human Computer Interaction, 2021. In press. (state of the art as of late 2019)</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> 2017 – Samuel Huron, Pauline Gourlet, Uta Hinrichs, Trevor Hogan, Yvonne Jansen. <a href="https://hal.sorbonne-universite.fr/hal-01538595/document" class="urlextern" title="https://hal.sorbonne-universite.fr/hal-01538595/document" rel="ugc nofollow">Let’s Get Physical: Promoting Data Physicalization in Workshop Formats</a>. Conference on Designing Interactive Systems DIS 2017, ACM, Jun 2017, New York, United States. pp.1409 - 1422.</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> 2016 - <a href="http://dataphys.org/workshops/dis17/position-papers/" class="urlextern" title="http://dataphys.org/workshops/dis17/position-papers/" rel="ugc nofollow">Position papers</a> sent to the the DIS 2017 workshop <em>Pedagogy &amp; Physicalization Designing Learning Activities around Physical Data Representations</em></div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> 2009 – <a href="/dataphys-dokuwiki/paywalled" class="wikilink2" title="paywalled" rel="nofollow" data-wiki-id="paywalled">paywalled</a> Andrew Vande Moere and Stephanie Patel. <a href="https://link.springer.com/chapter/10.1007/978-1-4419-0312-9_1" class="urlextern" title="https://link.springer.com/chapter/10.1007/978-1-4419-0312-9_1" rel="ugc nofollow">The physical visualization of information: designing data sculptures in an educational context</a>. Visual information communication. Springer, Boston, MA, 2009. 1-23. There is also an <a href="http://dataphys.org/list/data-sculptures-in-class/" class="urlextern" title="http://dataphys.org/list/data-sculptures-in-class/" rel="ugc nofollow">entry in the List of Physical Visualizations</a> on the physicalizations described in this article.</div>
</li>
</ul>

<p>
For an extensive bibliography on data physicalization, refer to our <a href="/dataphys-dokuwiki/bibliography" class="wikilink1" title="bibliography" data-wiki-id="bibliography">Bibliography</a> page.
</p>

</div>
<!-- EDIT{&quot;target&quot;:&quot;section&quot;,&quot;name&quot;:&quot;Teaching Bibliography&quot;,&quot;hid&quot;:&quot;teaching_bibliography&quot;,&quot;codeblockOffset&quot;:0,&quot;secid&quot;:4,&quot;range&quot;:&quot;2680-&quot;} -->