
<h1 class="sectionedit1" id="technologies">Technologies</h1>
<div class="level1">

<p>
This is a list of <strong>academic work discussing technologies</strong> that could be used for data physicalization, although they have not been specifically presented as such. It is currently very incomplete, but <a href="/dataphys-dokuwiki/contribute" class="wikilink1" title="contribute" data-wiki-id="contribute">you can help expand it</a>.
</p>

<p>
Also see the <em>enabling technology</em> category in the <a href="http://dataphys.org/list/category/enabling-technology/" class="urlextern" title="http://dataphys.org/list/category/enabling-technology/" rel="ugc nofollow">list of physical visualizations and related artefacts</a>.
</p>

</div>
<!-- EDIT{&quot;target&quot;:&quot;section&quot;,&quot;name&quot;:&quot;Technologies&quot;,&quot;hid&quot;:&quot;technologies&quot;,&quot;codeblockOffset&quot;:0,&quot;secid&quot;:1,&quot;range&quot;:&quot;1-440&quot;} -->
<h3 class="sectionedit2" id="section2021">2021</h3>
<div class="level3">
<ul>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Ettehadi, Omid, Fraser Anderson, Adam Tindale, and Sowmya Somanath.  <br/>
 <strong><a href="https://dl.acm.org/doi/abs/10.1145/3411764.3445551" class="urlextern" title="https://dl.acm.org/doi/abs/10.1145/3411764.3445551" rel="ugc nofollow">Documented: Embedding Information onto and Retrieving Information from 3D Printed Objects.</a></strong> <br/>
 In Proceedings of the 2021 CHI Conference on Human Factors in Computing Systems, pp. 1-11. 2021. DOI: 10.1145/3411764.3445551</div>
</li>
</ul>
<ul>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Bhardwaj, Ayush, Junghoon Chae, Richard Huynh Noeske, and Jin Ryong Kim.  <br/>
 <strong><a href="https://dl.acm.org/doi/abs/10.1145/3489849.3489890" class="urlextern" title="https://dl.acm.org/doi/abs/10.1145/3489849.3489890" rel="ugc nofollow">TangibleData: Interactive Data Visualization with Mid-Air Haptics.</a></strong> <br/>
 In Proceedings of the 27th ACM Symposium on Virtual Reality Software and Technology, pp. 1-11. 2021. DOI:10.1145/3489849.3489890</div>
</li>
</ul>

</div>
<!-- EDIT{&quot;target&quot;:&quot;section&quot;,&quot;name&quot;:&quot;2021&quot;,&quot;hid&quot;:&quot;section2021&quot;,&quot;codeblockOffset&quot;:0,&quot;secid&quot;:2,&quot;range&quot;:&quot;441-1155&quot;} -->
<h3 class="sectionedit3" id="section2020">2020</h3>
<div class="level3">
<ul>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Lee, Kyung-Ryong, Somi Ju, Temirlan Dzhoroev, Geonil Goh, Moon-Hwan Lee, and Young-Woo Park.  <br/>
 <strong><a href="https://dl.acm.org/doi/abs/10.1145/3357236.3395439" class="urlextern" title="https://dl.acm.org/doi/abs/10.1145/3357236.3395439" rel="ugc nofollow">DayClo: an everyday table clock providing interaction with personal schedule data for self-reflection.</a></strong> <br/>
 In Proceedings of the 2020 ACM Designing Interactive Systems Conference, pp. 1793-1806. 2020. DOI: 10.1145/3357236.3395439</div>
</li>
</ul>
<ul>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Nakagaki, Ken, Yingda Liu, Chloe Nelson-Arzuaga, and Hiroshi Ishii.  <br/>
 <strong><a href="https://dl.acm.org/doi/abs/10.1145/3374920.3374933" class="urlextern" title="https://dl.acm.org/doi/abs/10.1145/3374920.3374933" rel="ugc nofollow">TRANS-DOCK: Expanding the interactivity of pin-based shape displays by docking mechanical transducers.</a></strong> <br/>
 In Proceedings of the Fourteenth International Conference on Tangible, Embedded, and Embodied Interaction, pp. 131-142. 2020. DOI: 10.1145/3374920.3374933</div>
</li>
</ul>
<ul>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Mor, Hila, Tianyu Yu, Ken Nakagaki, Benjamin Harvey Miller, Yichen Jia, and Hiroshi Ishii.  <br/>
 <strong><a href="https://dl.acm.org/doi/abs/10.1145/3313831.3376129" class="urlextern" title="https://dl.acm.org/doi/abs/10.1145/3313831.3376129" rel="ugc nofollow">Venous materials: Towards interactive fluidic mechanisms.</a></strong> <br/>
 In Proceedings of the 2020 CHI Conference on Human Factors in Computing Systems, pp. 1-14. 2020. DOI: 10.1145/3313831.3376129</div>
</li>
</ul>
<ul>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Tejada, Carlos E., Raf Ramakers, Sebastian Boring, and Daniel Ashbrook.  <br/>
 <strong><a href="https://dl.acm.org/doi/abs/10.1145/3313831.3376136" class="urlextern" title="https://dl.acm.org/doi/abs/10.1145/3313831.3376136" rel="ugc nofollow">Airtouch: 3d-printed touch-sensitive objects using pneumatic sensing.</a></strong> <br/>
 In Proceedings of the 2020 CHI Conference on Human Factors in Computing Systems, pp. 1-10. 2020. DOI: 10.1145/3313831.3376136</div>
</li>
</ul>
<ul>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Zheng, Clement, Peter Gyory, and Ellen Yi-Luen Do.  <br/>
 <strong><a href="https://dl.acm.org/doi/abs/10.1145/3357236.3395578" class="urlextern" title="https://dl.acm.org/doi/abs/10.1145/3357236.3395578" rel="ugc nofollow">Tangible interfaces with printed paper markers.</a></strong> <br/>
 In Proceedings of the 2020 ACM designing interactive systems conference, pp. 909-923. 2020. DOI: 10.1145/3357236.3395578</div>
</li>
</ul>

</div>
<!-- EDIT{&quot;target&quot;:&quot;section&quot;,&quot;name&quot;:&quot;2020&quot;,&quot;hid&quot;:&quot;section2020&quot;,&quot;codeblockOffset&quot;:0,&quot;secid&quot;:3,&quot;range&quot;:&quot;1156-2943&quot;} -->
<h3 class="sectionedit4" id="section2019">2019</h3>
<div class="level3">
<ul>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Suzuki, Ryo, Clement Zheng, Yasuaki Kakehi, Tom Yeh, Ellen Yi-Luen Do, Mark D. Gross, and Daniel Leithinger.  <br/>
 <strong><a href="https://dl.acm.org/doi/10.1145/3332165.3347911" class="urlextern" title="https://dl.acm.org/doi/10.1145/3332165.3347911" rel="ugc nofollow">Shapebots: Shape-changing swarm robots.</a></strong> <br/>
 In Proceedings of the 32nd annual ACM symposium on user interface software and technology, pp. 493-505. 2019. DOI: 10.1145/3332165.3347911</div>
</li>
</ul>
<ul>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Daniel, Maxime, Guillaume Rivière, and Nadine Couture.  <br/>
 <strong><a href="https://dl.acm.org/doi/abs/10.1145/3294109.3295634" class="urlextern" title="https://dl.acm.org/doi/abs/10.1145/3294109.3295634" rel="ugc nofollow">Cairnform: A shape-changing ring chart notifying renewable energy availability in peripheral locations.</a></strong> <br/>
 In Proceedings of the Thirteenth International Conference on Tangible, Embedded, and Embodied Interaction, pp. 275-286. 2019. DOI: 10.1145/3294109.3295634</div>
</li>
</ul>
<ul>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Ju, Somi, Kyung-Ryong Lee, Subin Kim, and Young-Woo Park.  <br/>
 <strong><a href="https://dl.acm.org/doi/abs/10.1145/3290605.3300614" class="urlextern" title="https://dl.acm.org/doi/abs/10.1145/3290605.3300614" rel="ugc nofollow">Bookly: An Interactive Everyday Artifact Showing the Time of Physically Accumulated Reading Activity.</a></strong> <br/>
 In Proceedings of the 2019 CHI Conference on Human Factors in Computing Systems, pp. 1-8. 2019. DOI: 10.1145/3290605.3300614</div>
</li>
</ul>

</div>
<!-- EDIT{&quot;target&quot;:&quot;section&quot;,&quot;name&quot;:&quot;2019&quot;,&quot;hid&quot;:&quot;section2019&quot;,&quot;codeblockOffset&quot;:0,&quot;secid&quot;:4,&quot;range&quot;:&quot;2944-4061&quot;} -->
<h3 class="sectionedit5" id="section2018">2018</h3>
<div class="level3">
<ul>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Suzuki, Ryo, Jun Kato, Mark D. Gross, and Tom Yeh.  <br/>
 <strong><a href="https://dl.acm.org/doi/abs/10.1145/3173574.3173773" class="urlextern" title="https://dl.acm.org/doi/abs/10.1145/3173574.3173773" rel="ugc nofollow">Reactile: Programming swarm user interfaces through direct physical manipulation.</a></strong> <br/>
 In Proceedings of the 2018 CHI Conference on Human Factors in Computing Systems, pp. 1-13. 2018. DOI: 10.1145/3173574.3173773</div>
</li>
</ul>

</div>
<!-- EDIT{&quot;target&quot;:&quot;section&quot;,&quot;name&quot;:&quot;2018&quot;,&quot;hid&quot;:&quot;section2018&quot;,&quot;codeblockOffset&quot;:0,&quot;secid&quot;:5,&quot;range&quot;:&quot;4062-4408&quot;} -->
<h3 class="sectionedit6" id="section2017">2017</h3>
<div class="level3">
<ul>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Suzuki, Ryo, Abigale Stangl, Mark D. Gross, and Tom Yeh.  <br/>
 <strong><a href="https://dl.acm.org/doi/abs/10.1145/3132525.3132548" class="urlextern" title="https://dl.acm.org/doi/abs/10.1145/3132525.3132548" rel="ugc nofollow">Fluxmarker: Enhancing tactile graphics with dynamic tactile markers.</a></strong> <br/>
 In Proceedings of the 19th International ACM SIGACCESS Conference on Computers and Accessibility, pp. 190-199. 2017. DOI: 10.1145/3132525.3132548</div>
</li>
</ul>

</div>
<!-- EDIT{&quot;target&quot;:&quot;section&quot;,&quot;name&quot;:&quot;2017&quot;,&quot;hid&quot;:&quot;section2017&quot;,&quot;codeblockOffset&quot;:0,&quot;secid&quot;:6,&quot;range&quot;:&quot;4409-4768&quot;} -->
<h3 class="sectionedit7" id="section2015">2015</h3>
<div class="level3">

<p>
<a href="/dataphys-dokuwiki/_media/#ev:youtube" class="media mediafile mf_" title=" (3 B)">VZQYn_uh9GM|250|right|Video preview for **bioLogic: Natto Cells as Nanoactuators for Shape Changing Interfaces**.|frame</a>
</p>
<ul>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Ken Nakagaki, Sean Follmer, and Hiroshi Ishii.  <br/>
<strong>LineFORM: Actuated Curve Interfaces for Display, Interaction, and Constraint</strong>.  <br/>
UIST&#039;15 - Proceedings of the 28th Annual ACM Symposium on User Interface Software &amp; Technology. ACM, 2015, pp. 333-339.</div>
</li>
</ul>
<ul>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Cesar Torres, Tim Campbell, Neil Kumar, and Eric Paulos. <br/>
<strong>HapticPrint: Designing Feel Aesthetics for Digital Fabrication</strong>. <br/>
UIST&#039;15 - Proceedings of the 28th Annual ACM Symposium on User Interface Software &amp; Technology. ACM, 2015, pp. 583-591. </div>
</li>
</ul>
<ul>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Yao L., Wang, W., Ou, J, Wang, G., Cheng, C-Y, Steiner, H., Ishii, H.  <br/>
<strong>bioLogic: Natto Cells as Nanoactuators for Shape Changing Interfaces</strong>.  <br/>
CHI 2015 - Proceedings of the SIGCHI Conference on Human Factors in Computing Systems. ACM, 2015.</div>
</li>
</ul>

<p>
<a href="/dataphys-dokuwiki/_media/#ev:youtube" class="media mediafile mf_" title=" (3 B)">1dHxZi7evMo|250|right|Video for **ShapeClip: towards rapid prototyping with shape-changing displays for designers**.|frame</a>
</p>
<ul>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Hardy, John, Christian Weichel, Faisal Taher, John Vidler, and Jason Alexander. <br/>
<strong>ShapeClip: towards rapid prototyping with shape-changing displays for designers.</strong> <br/>
CHI 2015 - Proceedings of the SIGCHI Conference on Human Factors in Computing Systems, pp. 19-28. ACM, 2015.</div>
</li>
</ul>

</div>
<!-- EDIT{&quot;target&quot;:&quot;section&quot;,&quot;name&quot;:&quot;2015&quot;,&quot;hid&quot;:&quot;section2015&quot;,&quot;codeblockOffset&quot;:0,&quot;secid&quot;:7,&quot;range&quot;:&quot;4769-6116&quot;} -->
<h3 class="sectionedit8" id="section2014">2014</h3>
<div class="level3">

<p>
<a href="/dataphys-dokuwiki/_media/#ev:youtube" class="media mediafile mf_" title=" (3 B)">Df7fZAYVAIE|250|right|Video for **Dyadic projected spatial augmented reality**.|frame</a>
</p>
<ul>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Benko, H., Wilson, A. D., Zannier, F., and Benko, H.  <br/>
<strong>Dyadic projected spatial augmented reality</strong>. <br/>
In Proc. UIST (2014), 645–655.</div>
</li>
</ul>

<p>
<a href="/dataphys-dokuwiki/_media/#ev:vimeo" class="media mediafile mf_" title=" (3 B)">87068584|250|right|Video for **Weight and volume changing device with liquid metal transfer**.|frame</a>
</p>
<ul>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Niiyama, R., Yao, L., and Ishii, H.  <br/>
<strong>Weight and volume changing device with liquid metal transfer.</strong>  <br/>
In Proc. TEI (2014), 49–52.</div>
</li>
</ul>

<p>
<a href="/dataphys-dokuwiki/_media/#ev:youtube" class="media mediafile mf_" title=" (3 B)">LiD7dnqY034|250|right|Video for **Printscreen: fabricating highly customizable thin-film touch-displays**.|frame</a>
</p>
<ul>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Olberding, S., Wessely, M., and Steimle, J.  <br/>
<strong>Printscreen: fabricating highly customizable thin-film touch-displays</strong>.  <br/>
In Proc. UIST (2014), 281–290.</div>
</li>
</ul>
<ul>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Seah, S., Drinkwater, B., Carter, T., Malkin, R., and Subramanian, S.  <br/>
<strong>Dexterous ultrasonic levitation of millimeter-sized objects in air.</strong>  <br/>
UFFC 61, 7 (2014), 1233–1236.</div>
</li>
</ul>

<p>
<a href="/dataphys-dokuwiki/_media/#ev:youtube" class="media mediafile mf_" title=" (3 B)">JGUmf4HqTxM|250|right|Video for **SensaBubble: A chrono-sensory mid-air display of sight and smell**.|frame</a>
</p>
<ul>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Seah, S. A., Martinez Plasencia, D., Bennett, P. D., Karnik, A., Otrocol, V. S., Knibbe, J., Cockburn, A., and Subramanian, S.  <br/>
<strong>SensaBubble: A chrono-sensory mid-air display of sight and smell.</strong>  <br/>
CHI 2014 - Proceedings of the SIGCHI Conference on Human Factors in Computing Systems. ACM, 2014., 2863–2872.</div>
</li>
</ul>

</div>
<!-- EDIT{&quot;target&quot;:&quot;section&quot;,&quot;name&quot;:&quot;2014&quot;,&quot;hid&quot;:&quot;section2014&quot;,&quot;codeblockOffset&quot;:0,&quot;secid&quot;:8,&quot;range&quot;:&quot;6117-7566&quot;} -->
<h3 class="sectionedit9" id="section2013">2013</h3>
<div class="level3">
<ul>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Follmer, S., Leithinger, D., Olwal, A., Hogge, A., and Ishii, H.  <br/>
<strong>inFORM: Dynamic physical affordances and constraints through shape and object actuation</strong>.  <br/>
In Proc. UIST (2013), 417–426.</div>
</li>
</ul>
<ul>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Romanishin, J., Gilpin, K., and Rus, D.  <br/>
<strong>M-blocks: Momentum-driven, magnetic modular robots.</strong>  <br/>
In Proc. IROS, IEEE/RSJ (2013), 4288–4295.</div>
</li>
</ul>
<ul>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Roudaut, A., Karnik, A., Lo ̈chtefeld, M., and Subramanian, S.  <br/>
<strong>Morphees: Toward high “shape resolution” in self-actuated flexible mobile devices</strong>.  <br/>
In Proc. CHI (2013), 593–602.</div>
</li>
</ul>
<ul>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Steimle, J., Jordt, A., and Maes, P.  <br/>
<strong>Flexpad: highly flexible bending interactions for projected handheld displays</strong>.  <br/>
In Proc. CHI (2013), 237–246.</div>
</li>
</ul>
<ul>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Yao, L., Niiyama, R., Ou, J., Follmer, S., Della Silva, C., and Ishii, H.  <br/>
<strong>PneUI: Pneumatically actuated soft composite materials for shape changing interfaces</strong>.  <br/>
In Proc. UIST (2013), 13–22.</div>
</li>
</ul>

</div>
<!-- EDIT{&quot;target&quot;:&quot;section&quot;,&quot;name&quot;:&quot;2013&quot;,&quot;hid&quot;:&quot;section2013&quot;,&quot;codeblockOffset&quot;:0,&quot;secid&quot;:9,&quot;range&quot;:&quot;7567-8512&quot;} -->
<h3 class="sectionedit10" id="section2012">2012</h3>
<div class="level3">
<ul>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Alexander, J., Lucero, A., and Subramanian, S.  <br/>
<strong>Tilt Displays: Designing display surfaces with multi-axis tilting and actuation</strong>.  <br/>
In Mobile HCI (2012), 161–170.</div>
</li>
</ul>
<ul>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Follmer, S., Leithinger, D., Olwal, A., Cheng, N., and Ishii, H.  <br/>
<strong>Jamming user interfaces: Programmable particle stiffness and sensing for malleable and shape-changing devices</strong>.  <br/>
In Proc. UIST (2012), 519–528.</div>
</li>
</ul>
<ul>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Ishii, H., Lakatos, D., Bonanni, L., and Labrune, J.-B.  <br/>
<strong>Radical Atoms: Beyond Tangible Bits, toward transformable materials</strong>.  <br/>
Interactions 19, 1 (2012), 38–51.</div>
</li>
</ul>
<ul>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Kildal, J.  <br/>
<strong>Kooboh: Variable tangible properties in a handheld Haptic-Illusion box</strong>.  <br/>
In Proc. EuroHaptics’12. Springer, 2012, 191–194.</div>
</li>
</ul>
<ul>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Rasmussen, M. K., Pedersen, E. W., Petersen, M. G., and Hornbæk, K.  <br/>
<strong>Shape-changing interfaces: a review of the design space and open research questions</strong>.  <br/>
In Proc. CHI (2012), 735–744.</div>
</li>
</ul>

</div>
<!-- EDIT{&quot;target&quot;:&quot;section&quot;,&quot;name&quot;:&quot;2012&quot;,&quot;hid&quot;:&quot;section2012&quot;,&quot;codeblockOffset&quot;:0,&quot;secid&quot;:10,&quot;range&quot;:&quot;8513-9466&quot;} -->
<h3 class="sectionedit11" id="section2011">2011</h3>
<div class="level3">
<ul>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Gilpin, K., Koyanagi, K., and Rus, D.  <br/>
<strong>Making self-disassembling objects with multiple components in the Robot Pebbles system</strong>.  <br/>
In ICRA (2011), 3614–3621.</div>
</li>
</ul>
<ul>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Lai, C.-H., Niinimaki, M., Tahiroğlu, K., Kildal, J. and Ahmaniemi, T.  <br/>
<strong>Perceived Physicality in Audio-Enhanced Force Input</strong>.  <br/>
Proc. ICMI&#039;11 ACM, (2011), 287-294.</div>
</li>
</ul>
<ul>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Lee, J., Post, R., and Ishii, H.  <br/>
<strong>ZeroN: Mid-air tangible interaction enabled by computer controlled magnetic levitation</strong>.  <br/>
In Proc. UIST (2011), 327–336.</div>
</li>
</ul>

</div>
<!-- EDIT{&quot;target&quot;:&quot;section&quot;,&quot;name&quot;:&quot;2011&quot;,&quot;hid&quot;:&quot;section2011&quot;,&quot;codeblockOffset&quot;:0,&quot;secid&quot;:11,&quot;range&quot;:&quot;9467-10002&quot;} -->
<h3 class="sectionedit12" id="section2010">2010</h3>
<div class="level3">
<ul>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Kildal, J.  <br/>
<strong>3D-Press: Haptic Illusion of Compliance when Pressing on a Rigid Surface</strong>.  <br/>
Proc. ICMI&#039;10 ACM, (2010), 8pp.</div>
</li>
</ul>

</div>
<!-- EDIT{&quot;target&quot;:&quot;section&quot;,&quot;name&quot;:&quot;2010&quot;,&quot;hid&quot;:&quot;section2010&quot;,&quot;codeblockOffset&quot;:0,&quot;secid&quot;:12,&quot;range&quot;:&quot;10003-10151&quot;} -->
<h3 class="sectionedit13" id="section2009">2009</h3>
<div class="level3">
<ul>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Hiller, J., and Lipson, H.  <br/>
<strong>Design and analysis of digital materials for physical 3d voxel printing</strong>.  <br/>
Rapid Prototyping Journal 15, 2 (2009), 137–149.</div>
</li>
</ul>

</div>
<!-- EDIT{&quot;target&quot;:&quot;section&quot;,&quot;name&quot;:&quot;2009&quot;,&quot;hid&quot;:&quot;section2009&quot;,&quot;codeblockOffset&quot;:0,&quot;secid&quot;:13,&quot;range&quot;:&quot;10152-10334&quot;} -->
<h3 class="sectionedit14" id="section2006">2006</h3>
<div class="level3">
<ul>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Schweikardt, E., and Gross, M. D.  <br/>
<strong>roBlocks: A robotic construction kit for mathematics and science education</strong>.  <br/>
In Proc. ICMI (2006), 72–75.</div>
</li>
</ul>

</div>
<!-- EDIT{&quot;target&quot;:&quot;section&quot;,&quot;name&quot;:&quot;2006&quot;,&quot;hid&quot;:&quot;section2006&quot;,&quot;codeblockOffset&quot;:0,&quot;secid&quot;:14,&quot;range&quot;:&quot;10335-10507&quot;} -->
<h3 class="sectionedit15" id="section2004">2004</h3>
<div class="level3">
<ul>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Poupyrev, I., Nashida, T., Maruyama, S., Rekimoto, J., and Yamaji, Y.  <br/>
<strong>Lumen: interactive visual and shape display for calm computing</strong>.  <br/>
In SIGGRAPH Emerging Technologies (2004), 17.</div>
</li>
</ul>

</div>
<!-- EDIT{&quot;target&quot;:&quot;section&quot;,&quot;name&quot;:&quot;2004&quot;,&quot;hid&quot;:&quot;section2004&quot;,&quot;codeblockOffset&quot;:0,&quot;secid&quot;:15,&quot;range&quot;:&quot;10508-10719&quot;} -->
<h3 class="sectionedit16" id="section2002">2002</h3>
<div class="level3">
<ul>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Murata, S., Yoshida, E., Kamimura, A., Kurokawa, H., Tomita, K., and Kokaji, S.  <br/>
<strong>M-TRAN: Self-reconfigurable modular robotic system.  <br/>
TMECH 7, 4 (2002), 431–441</strong>.</div>
</li>
</ul>
<ul>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Piper, B., Ratti, C., and Ishii, H.  <br/>
<strong>Illuminating clay: A 3-D tangible interface for landscape analysis</strong>.  <br/>
In Proc. CHI (2002), 355–362.</div>
</li>
</ul>

</div>
<!-- EDIT{&quot;target&quot;:&quot;section&quot;,&quot;name&quot;:&quot;2002&quot;,&quot;hid&quot;:&quot;section2002&quot;,&quot;codeblockOffset&quot;:0,&quot;secid&quot;:16,&quot;range&quot;:&quot;10720-11066&quot;} -->
<h3 class="sectionedit17" id="section1999">1999</h3>
<div class="level3">
<ul>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Underkoffler, J., and Ishii, H.  <br/>
<strong>Urp: A luminous-tangible workbench for urban planning and design</strong>.  <br/>
In Proc. CHI (1999), 386–393.</div>
</li>
</ul>

</div>
<!-- EDIT{&quot;target&quot;:&quot;section&quot;,&quot;name&quot;:&quot;1999&quot;,&quot;hid&quot;:&quot;section1999&quot;,&quot;codeblockOffset&quot;:0,&quot;secid&quot;:17,&quot;range&quot;:&quot;11067-&quot;} -->