
<h1 class="sectionedit1" id="workshops">Workshops</h1>
<div class="level1">

<p>
This is a list of past and future workshops on data physicalization. If you are organizing or already organized a workshop on this (or a related) topic, feel free to <a href="/dataphys-dokuwiki/contribute" class="wikilink1" title="contribute" data-wiki-id="contribute">add it here</a>.
</p>

</div>
<!-- EDIT{&quot;target&quot;:&quot;section&quot;,&quot;name&quot;:&quot;Workshops&quot;,&quot;hid&quot;:&quot;workshops&quot;,&quot;codeblockOffset&quot;:0,&quot;secid&quot;:1,&quot;range&quot;:&quot;1-220&quot;} -->
<h1 class="sectionedit2" id="to_come">To come</h1>
<div class="level1">

</div>
<!-- EDIT{&quot;target&quot;:&quot;section&quot;,&quot;name&quot;:&quot;To come&quot;,&quot;hid&quot;:&quot;to_come&quot;,&quot;codeblockOffset&quot;:0,&quot;secid&quot;:2,&quot;range&quot;:&quot;221-242&quot;} -->
<h1 class="sectionedit3" id="past">Past</h1>
<div class="level1">
<ul>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Oct/Nov 2018, Dagstuhl, Germany. <a href="https://www.dagstuhl.de/en/program/calendar/semhp/?semnr=18441" class="urlextern" title="https://www.dagstuhl.de/en/program/calendar/semhp/?semnr=18441" rel="ugc nofollow">A one-week seminar on Data Physicalization</a> organized by Jason Alexander, Petra Isenberg, Yvonne Jansen, Bernice E. Rogowitz and Andrew Vande Moere</div>
</li>
</ul>
<ul>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Oct 2018, Berlin, Germany. Workshop co-located with IEEE VIS 2018 on <a href="http://dataphys.org/workshops/vis18/" class="urlextern" title="http://dataphys.org/workshops/vis18/" rel="ugc nofollow">Toward a Design Language for Data Physicalization</a> organized by Trevor Hogan, Uta Hinrichs, Jason Alexander, Samuel Huron, Sheelagh Carpendale, Eva Hornecker.</div>
</li>
</ul>
<ul>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> 2018 Limerick, Ireland. Workshop co-located with DRS (Design Research Society) on <a href="https://data-physicalisation.github.io/drs2018.html" class="urlextern" title="https://data-physicalisation.github.io/drs2018.html" rel="ugc nofollow">Considering Physical Variables for Data Physicalization</a> organized by Trevor Hogan, Uta Hinrichs , Bettina Nissen, Samuel Huron.</div>
</li>
</ul>
<ul>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> 11 June 2017 – <a href="http://dataphys.org/workshops/dis17" class="urlextern" title="http://dataphys.org/workshops/dis17" rel="ugc nofollow">Pedagogy &amp; Physicalization</a>, a data physicalization workshop focused on designing learning activities around physical data representations. The workshop took place during the ACM DIS 2017 conference and was organized by Trevor Hogan, Uta Hinrichs, Yvonne Jansen, Samuel Huron, Pauline Gourlet, Eva Hornecker and Bettina Nissen.</div>
</li>
</ul>
<ul>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> 15-19 May 2017 — <a href="https://datafossil.xyz/" class="urlextern" title="https://datafossil.xyz/" rel="ugc nofollow">Datafossil #3</a>, a data physicalization workshop held at École de Design de Nantes Atlantique. Organized by Jérôme Héno, Matthias Rischewski and Louis Eveillard.</div>
</li>
</ul>
<ul>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> 29 June 2016 — <a href="http://dataphys.org/workshops/drs16" class="urlextern" title="http://dataphys.org/workshops/drs16" rel="ugc nofollow">Let’s Get Physical, Exploring the Design Process of Data Physicalization</a>, a hands-on workshop held during the <a href="http://www.drs2016.org/#drs2016" class="urlextern" title="http://www.drs2016.org/#drs2016" rel="ugc nofollow">DRS</a> conference. Organized by Yvonne Jansen, Pauline Gourlet, Samuel Huron, Uta Hinrichs, and Trevor Hogan.</div>
</li>
</ul>
<ul>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> 2-6 May 2016 — <a href="http://www.densitydesign.org/2016/05/from-mind-to-reality-workshop/" class="urlextern" title="http://www.densitydesign.org/2016/05/from-mind-to-reality-workshop/" rel="ugc nofollow">“From Mind to Reality” Workshop</a>, a new workshop format engaging students with different backgrounds – Communication Design, Product Design, Design &amp; Engineering – asking them to design and prototype an object able to make live data streams “tangible”. Organized by Monica Bordegoni and Michele Mauri from the Density Design Lab at Politecnico di Milano.</div>
</li>
</ul>
<ul>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> 18 April 2016 — <a href="https://www.flickr.com/photos/cuivienna/sets/72157667253863706" class="urlextern" title="https://www.flickr.com/photos/cuivienna/sets/72157667253863706" rel="ugc nofollow">Workshop</a> introducing “Creative Technology” students at TU Twente, Netherlands, to Data Physicalization. Organized by Yvonne Jansen with support from Angelika Mader and Yuri Engelhardt.</div>
</li>
</ul>
<ul>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> 14 + 16 February 2016 — <a href="http://dataphys.org/workshops/tei16" class="urlextern" title="http://dataphys.org/workshops/tei16" rel="ugc nofollow">Tangible Data, Explorations in Data Physicalization</a>, a studio-workshop at TEI&#039;16, Feb 14+16, 2016, Eindhoven, Netherlands. Organized by Trevor Hogan, Eva Hornecker, Simon Stusak, Yvonne Jansen, Jason Alexander, Andrew Vande Moere, Uta Hinrichs, and Kieran Nolan.</div>
</li>
</ul>
<ul>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> 19 April 2015 — <a href="http://jasonalexander.kiwi/workshops/physicaldata2015/" class="urlextern" title="http://jasonalexander.kiwi/workshops/physicaldata2015/" rel="ugc nofollow">Exploring the Challenges of Making Data Physical</a> at CHI 2015 in Seoul organized by Jason Alexander, Yvonne Jansen, Kasper Hornbæk, Johan Kildal, and Abhijit Karnik.</div>
</li>
</ul>
<ul>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> 9 Nov 2014 — <a href="http://dataphys.org/workshops/vis14" class="urlextern" title="http://dataphys.org/workshops/vis14" rel="ugc nofollow">Death of the Desktop: Envisioning Visualization without Desktop Computing</a> at IEEE VIS in Paris organized by Yvonne Jansen, Petra Isenberg, Jason Dykes, Sheelagh Carpendale, and Dan Keefe.</div>
</li>
</ul>

</div>
<!-- EDIT{&quot;target&quot;:&quot;section&quot;,&quot;name&quot;:&quot;Past&quot;,&quot;hid&quot;:&quot;past&quot;,&quot;codeblockOffset&quot;:0,&quot;secid&quot;:3,&quot;range&quot;:&quot;243-&quot;} -->